Competency-Based
Competitive Events
*Written Exam*
for District/Regional Use
Test Number 1068
Booklet Number _____

Business Administration
Core Exam
PBM - Principles of Business Management and Administration Event
PFN - Principles of Finance Event
PHT - Principles of Hospitality and Tourism Event
PMK - Principles of Marketing Event

INSTRUCTIONS: This is a timed, comprehensive exam for the occupational area
identified above. Do not open this booklet until instructed to do so by the
testing monitor. You will have _____ minutes to complete all questions.

CAUTION: Posting these materials on a website is a copyright violation unless
specifically authorized by MBAResearch.
This comprehensive exam was developed by the MBAResearch Center under contract with
DECA, Inc. Items have been randomly selected from the MBAResearch Test-Item Bank and
represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance Indicators for this exam are at the
prerequisite and career-sustaining levels. A descriptive test key, including question sources and
answer rationale, has been provided the state DECA advisor.

Copyright © 2013 by Marketing & Business Administration Research and
Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio (dba MBAResearch). Each individual test item contained
herein is the exclusive property of MBAResearch. Items are licensed only for use as configured
within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than as specifically
authorized in writing by MBAResearch is prohibited. Possession of this exam, without written
authorization, under any other circumstances is a copyright violation. Posting to inter- or
intranet sites is specifically forbidden unless written permission is obtained prior to posting.
Report violations to MBAResearch at 800.448.0398. Permission for reprinting is granted to state
DECA Associations authorized by DECA, Inc.

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM

1

1. Which of the following is a characteristic of a business-format franchise:
A. The name of the business is chosen by the franchisee.
B. Products are bought directly from the supplier.
C. It is the least popular franchise arrangement.
D. Continuous assistance is provided by the franchisor.
2. What should business employees possess in order to extract relevant information from written materials?
A. Ability to listen
C. Good reading skills
B. Limited vocabularies
D. Effective speaking voice
3. What type of information should employees be able to locate in their company's employee handbook?
A. The company's annual report
B. The company's list of current job openings
C. The use of company property
D. The number of vacation days that an employee has taken
4. Millie is reading a book to learn how to knit. She wants to make her sister a scarf for Christmas, but it's
only a week away, and she doesn't have much time. Millie decides to skip ahead of the directions, and
the scarf winds up looking more like a potholder. Which of the following tips for following directions did
Millie ignore:
A. Accept responsibility
C. Don't rush
B. Know when to speak
D. Note key words
5. Which of the following is a guideline for effective verbal communication:
A. Keep the voice at the same pitch
C. Try to avoid eye contact
B. Use speech mannerisms
D. Use gestures for emphasis
6. The most effective way to interpret others' nonverbal cues often is to look at their
A. facial expressions.
C. clothing style.
B. leg movements.
D. office decor.
7. When giving verbal directions to employees about how to complete a task, it is often helpful to
A. speak softly.
C. use complex words.
B. use visuals.
D. limit body language.
8. Roberto has just finished giving a presentation about global warming. An obviously irritated audience
member stands and says that there is no evidence to prove global warming exists. Roberto calmly reads
results from three scientific reports on its existence. Roberto's response is an example of
A. a transition.
C. defending an idea objectively.
B. an effective conclusion.
D. expressing a cultural barrier.
9. What is an advantage to a business of encouraging employees to participate in group discussions?
A. Many opinions increase the chances of developing useful recommendations.
B. It makes it easier to reach a unanimous decision.
C. Less conflict is likely to occur when discussing controversial issues.
D. The participants' input usually helps the business to resolve problems quickly.
10. When taking notes during a seminar, a businessperson should write down
A. all details.
C. key points.
B. information of interest.
D. inaccurate statements.
11. Using a table to present or summarize data in a written document is most appropriate when
A. the data are too complex to describe in the body of the text.
B. it is important to build credibility and impress the audience.
C. the report does not require a bibliography.
D. it is placed in the appendices of a complex report.

®

Copyright © 2013 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center , Columbus, Ohio

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM

2

12. A business that writes letters to customers to confirm their orders or requests should make sure that the
letters contain
A. a map of all business locations.
C. exchange rates.
B. product ratings and grades.
D. all the necessary information.
13. The primary purpose of placing headings and subheadings in a long business report is to
A. provide supporting evidence for key points.
B. attract attention to the writer's hidden agenda.
C. organize content in a cohesive, manageable way.
D. solicit an opinion or response from the audience.
14. Which of the following information should be included in the inside address section of a business letter:
A. Message
C. Date
B. Subject
D. Title
15. When writing informational messages, it is most important to communicate
A. an honest opinion.
C. accurate content.
B. emotional appeal.
D. a request for action.
16. What type of information should a business include when writing a sales proposal to send to a customer?
A. Shipping and receiving
C. Pricing and accounting
B. Features and benefits
D. Laws and regulations
17. Which of the following is not a good technique for participating in a staff meeting:
A. Understand the goal of the meeting prior to its start
B. Contribute at least one opinion to every staff meeting in which you participate
C. Avoid arguing with other participants, even if you strongly disagree with their point of view
D. Follow the instructions of the group leader, even if you have a better idea for organizing the
meeting
18. A customer asks Roger a question about a product, and he isn't sure of the correct answer. He
immediately phones his supervisor to get the needed information. Which technique for building positive
customer relations does this illustrate?
A. Pay attention to internal customers.
C. Be helpful.
B. Keep your promises.
D. Be thankful.
19. One way that employees can provide efficient, quick service to customers is by being
A. forceful.
C. detached.
B. organized.
D. aggressive.
20. Kate's coworker Jack is meeting with a very important German client tomorrow. Kate has been to
Germany several times, and tells Jack that German businesspeople tend to be very formal and serious in
business situations. After learning this information, Jack now knows that he should avoid
A. shaking hands.
C. using humor.
B. using titles.
D. making eye contact.
21. Business policies that focus on meeting consumers' wants and needs while making a fair profit for the
business are primarily intended to
A. keep operations running smoothly.
C. reduce misunderstandings.
B. guide employees' actions.
D. satisfy customers.
22. Carrie has a summer job cleaning and maintaining backyard pools. Her boss thinks she does a great job.
Today, she has a new client. For a while, he was watching her from the porch, and then he came out and
stood just a few feet away from her. "Don't do it that way," he instructed. "You're using too much chlorine.
Should I just measure it out for you?" Carrie's customer is
A. suspicious.
C. domineering/superior.
B. slow/methodical.
D. irritable/moody.

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM

3

23. Which of the following are the three major areas of customer complaints:
A. Labeling, faulty design, and mispricing
C. Product, personnel, and the business
B. Improper decisions, oversight, and service
D. Poor service, inaccurate forms, and rudeness
24. Which of the following is a consumer good:
A. Point-of-sale terminal
B. Display racks

C. Children's apparel
D. Employee uniforms

25. The gap between unlimited desires for products and limited resources is known as
A. conservation.
C. abundance.
B. scarcity.
D. unemployment.
26. A refinery in Houston processes crude oil into gasoline and delivers it to a service station in California.
Which two types of utility are being created in this situation?
A. Place and time
C. Form and place
B. Form and time
D. Time and possession
27. When the price of a product is high, consumer demand will usually be
A. high.
C. unchanged.
B. low.
D. about average.
28. Social responsibility is the duty of business to
A. contribute to the well-being of society.
B. provide social activities for employees.

C. contribute to product development.
D. provide educational loans to employees.

29. Taking the profits from the businesses it owns is one way that the government of a __________ economy
obtains capital.
A. communist command
C. market
B. free enterprise
D. traditional
30. Income from sales minus the cost of merchandise sold calculates a business's
A. gross domestic product.
C. net profit or loss.
B. operating expenses.
D. gross profit on sales.
31. One way in which government protects private property is to provide
A. fire insurance policies.
C. Federal Reserve Banks.
B. local governmental programs.
D. patents or copyrights.
32. Which of the following is most likely to help any business reach maximum productivity:
A. Using one-way communication to inform workers
B. Making managers responsible for all decisions
C. Offering inflexible work schedules and overtime hours
D. Combining well-qualified workers and efficient job methods
33. Emotional intelligence is especially important today because
A. everyone can be a world traveler and see other cultures.
B. our culture is more relaxed and free.
C. people need to interact in more secure business environments.
D. collaboration is becoming a standard method of achieving business goals.
34. Visualizing yourself as you would like to be is a technique that
A. is seldom rewarding.
C. takes time and practice.
B. does not work well.
D. is quick and easy to learn.

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM

4

35. A restaurant developed a new recipe for its beef ribs, which it wished to keep secret. When interviewing
potential employees to prepare the ribs, what personal trait would be the most important to the
restaurant?
A. Tact
C. Industry
B. Loyalty
D. Initiative
36. One way employees can demonstrate initiative is by handling __________ situations effectively.
A. unexpected
C. routine
B. regular
D. training
37. Phyllis was on her way to work one morning when she was involved in an accident. Phyllis used her cell
phone to call the police. In order to act responsibly, Phyllis should also immediately call
A. auto-body shops for insurance estimates.
C. a rental agency to get a car.
B. a tow truck to pick up her car.
D. work to let them know where she is.
38. Because Paul always tries to do what is right, his friends consider him to be a person who has
A. dignity.
C. conflicts.
B. integrity.
D. commitment.
39. Susan is a purchasing manager for a manufacturer. On Monday, Susan received a call from the plant
manager, who frantically told Susan that the production line ran out of 3/8” washers, which has forced
production to stop. Because Jason is the senior buyer in charge of ordering the washers, Susan set up a
meeting with Jason to discuss the problem. During the meeting, Susan asked Jason to explain why the
washers were out of stock. Jason replied, “Well, I told the office assistant to check the inventory. It's not
my fault that we don't have the washers in stock.” What is Jason doing?
A. Blaming another person for his mistake
B. Helping Susan to resolve the problem
C. Providing Susan with a valid reason for the stock-out
D. Denying that a problem exists
40. A characteristic of positive people that is important to businesses is that people with a positive attitude
are usually
A. well trained.
C. inflexible.
B. generous.
D. responsible.
41. Maureen becomes angry and defensive whenever her supervisor asks Maureen to correct mistakes.
Maureen's attitude is not a good response to criticism because
A. it indicates that Maureen wants to call attention to herself.
B. there is no reason to be angry about criticism.
C. Maureen has no right to be angry on the job.
D. it prevents Maureen from hearing the criticism clearly.
42. When the department manager was asked to replace the cash register with a scanner, s/he said that s/he
did not want to learn how to use the scanner. This is an example of being __________ to change.
A. unable
C. willing
B. receptive
D. resistant
43. Which of the following is an issue that often causes controversy between employers and employees:
A. Job enlargement
C. Social status
B. Wellness programs
D. Workplace privacy
44. An American manufacturer launches a product line that offends many customers in Middle Eastern
countries where the product line is considered inappropriate. This is an example of
A. nationalization.
C. product adaptation.
B. cultural imperialism.
D. globalization.

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM

5

45. Eye contact is an example of what type of communication?
A. Nonverbal
C. Verbal
B. Informal
D. Formal
46. Passive behavior is often referred to as __________ behavior.
A. confrontational
C. creative
B. defiant
D. avoidance
47. Which of the following are characteristics of adaptable people:
A. Creativity and resistance
C. Empathy and accuracy
B. Objectivity and attentiveness
D. Fairness and fear
48. To influence others to work toward a shared vision, a leader should possess a high level of credibility and
should be able to provide supporting
A. assumptions.
C. skills.
B. practices.
D. facts.
49. Pat tells Tim, "You can always talk to me. I'm here to help." Which of the following coaching
characteristics is Pat exhibiting:
A. Approachability
C. Humility
B. Persistence
D. Dependability
50. When there are frequent personality conflicts in a work group, the result is usually that it
A. interferes with the group's output.
C. brings the work effort to a standstill.
B. adds to the group's effectiveness.
D. makes the group more compatible.
51. To delay payment when buying business supplies from a web site, a purchaser is most likely to pay for
the goods with a(n) __________ card.
A. ATM
C. credit
B. debit
D. store-value
52. Chris is at the grocery store deciding between two very similar candy bars. One is $1.50, and the other is
$3.00. He decides to buy the $1.50 candy bar because it is cheaper. Chris is using money as a
____________ to make his decision.
A. store of value
C. unit of measure
B. medium of exchange
D. commodity
53. For an investment to yield positive results at the end of the investment period, the earnings should
A. grow by at least ten percent.
C. be accrued on a debt security.
B. exceed the rate of inflation.
D. be documented appropriately.
54. The chief advantage of offering retail credit is to
A. increase business hours.
B. decrease record keeping.

C. lower operating costs.
D. increase sales volume.

55. Molly and Tim have just had their first baby, Tommy. On top of their other financial considerations, such
as saving for their retirement, they will now have to start saving and investing for Tommy's
A. health insurance.
C. life insurance.
B. retirement.
D. college education.
56. On his way home from work, Jason stops at the gas station to buy a magazine and a pack of gum. The
magazine and gum are examples of _________ expenses.
A. non-essential
C. fixed
B. essential
D. variable

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM

6

57. Calculate Jason's gross earnings for the pay period if his net pay is $796.84, his total tax obligation is
$157.27, his medical insurance is $45.00, and his union dues are $15.00.
A. $894.11
C. $984.11
B. $579.57
D. $1,014.11
58. Melissa writes checks to pay for her rent, utilities, and groceries, and she keeps a record of all these
transactions in her check register. Keeping an accurate check register helps Melissa
A. track the amount of money she has spent.
B. determine when she needs to add funds to her savings account.
C. understand the checking account's restrictions and fees.
D. decide when to order new checks.
59. Jeff is a college student who just opened his first credit card. Which of the following should he NOT do:
A. Buy more with his card than he can afford
C. Think of his card as a loan
B. Pay his bill on time
D. Track his spending habits
60. Eric wants to buy a new house, and to do so he needs good credit. He has made all his rent, car, and
credit card payments on time, so he should have a good credit score. Before he goes to purchase the
house, he checks his credit report and finds that he has a low credit score because one of the agencies
mishandled his report. This example shows the importance of
A. validating credit history.
C. paying rent on time.
B. buying a house.
D. good credit.
61. Immediately contacting the credit-card company if credit cards are lost is one way to protect against
A. identity theft.
C. financial risk.
B. excessive penalties.
D. high interest rates.
62. In investing, legal owning- or lending-agreements between individuals, businesses, or governments are
known as
A. premiums.
C. collateral.
B. securities.
D. guarantees.
63. When a business purchases an insurance policy, it is agreeing to the terms of a
A. contract.
C. premium.
B. charter.
D. policyholder.
64. Two employees used a business's computerized accounting system to change some records. They were
able to steal $50,000 from the business because the accounting system lacked which of the following:
A. Protection from theft and fraud
C. A manual system as backup
B. An affordable price
D. Printed financial statements
65. A business should strive to keep its cash conversion cycle as short as possible so it
A. can increase its profit margin.
C. has cash available to use.
B. can earn dividends.
D. has fewer liquid assets.
66. One reason why human resources management is important to the success of a business is because this
process is responsible for
A. creating jobs for the company.
C. staffing the business.
B. eliminating turnover.
D. reducing compensation.
67. Identify the marketing function illustrated in the following situation: Martha wants a winter coat and sees a
style she likes in a magazine advertisement.
A. Promotion
C. Pricing
B. Selling
D. Purchasing

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM

7

68. Which of the following is the most efficient tool for gathering external information that businesses need:
A. Internet
C. Software
B. Library
D. Textbooks
69. Using a computer-generated slideshow to highlight product information would be most appropriate in
which of the following business situations:
A. Employee performance review
C. Formal sales presentation
B. Project-team status meeting
D. Union contract negotiations
70. Which of the following U.S. laws relates to information management:
A. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act
C. The Landrum-Griffin Act
B. The Sherman Anti-Trust Act
D. The Taft-Hartley Act
71. An automobile manufacturer is considering adding a sport utility vehicle to its product line. What
technology would allow the company to experiment with different styles, features, and sizes of the new
product without investing large amounts of money or time?
A. Computer-aided design
C. Data processing
B. Computer-assisted manufacturing
D. Artificial intelligence
72. What do businesses often develop to be able to store and analyze data for the purpose of making
business decisions?
A. Operating procedures
C. Survey methods
B. Information systems
D. Management policies
73. What is the importance of the computer hard drive in a computer system?
A. It transmits power to other computer devices.
B. It facilitates the computer's audio transmissions.
C. It allows the user to view the computer data.
D. It permanently stores the computer program files and data.
74. Which of the following is an Internet-access source that allows computer users to log onto the Internet
without a physical connection:
A. Analog
C. Wireless Fidelity
B. Broadband Cable
D. Portal
75. If your supervisor asks you to find information on Coca-Cola's current market share for cola in the United
States, the best and most precise wording to use when trying to narrow down the Internet search on most
search engines would be
A. Coca-Cola OR current market share OR cola AND United States.
B. Coca-Cola OR current market share OR cola OR United States.
C. Coca-Cola AND current market share AND cola AND United States.
D. Coca-Cola AND/OR market share.
76. While preparing the company's annual report in a computer word-processing program, Natasha deleted
an entire paragraph by mistake. The best way for Natasha to correct the mistake is to
A. use the edit undo command.
C. copy the text from another document.
B. retype the paragraph.
D. create a template.
77. A hotel wants to purchase computer software that would store, manage, and retrieve customer
information in order to better serve customer needs and increase sales. What type of software should the
hotel buy?
A. Computer-aided design
C. Word processing
B. Spreadsheet
D. Database

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM

8

78. The manager of a pet supply store is planning a sale. The manager set up a spreadsheet to calculate the
sale price for each item to reflect a 30% discount off the retail price. The retail price for an aquarium is
$228.00. What is the sale price for the aquarium?
A. $182.40
C. $159.60
B. $148.20
D. $193.80
79. Which of the following is needed to post a web page:
A. Legal permit
C. Interested audience
B. Product to sell
D. Web server
80. Operations activities vary depending on a business's
A. tax return.
B. name.

C. product.
D. address.

81. An employee notifying a government agency that the business is violating health and safety regulations is
an example of
A. reporting noncompliance.
C. unethical behavior.
B. spreading gossip.
D. verbal communication.
82. Jamie has been feeling exhausted and has had several minor accidents at work because of it. His
supervisor is calling him in for a conference. Which of the following safety risks will they discuss:
A. Horseplay
C. Hazards
B. Fatigue
D. Housekeeping
83. When an accident occurs at a place of business, employees should first try to
A. call an ambulance.
C. take the victim's pulse.
B. move the injured person.
D. find out how serious it is.
84. A cashier at Puritan Supermarket was approached by robbers who used force, violence, and fear to gain
access to the cash inside the cash register. What type of common business security problem did the
supermarket experience?
A. Shoplifting
C. Burglary
B. Robbery
D. Embezzlement
85. Why have some major retail businesses decentralized their purchasing operations?
A. They maintain a wider variety of suppliers.
C. Their stores are geographically distant.
B. Their buyers prefer to be independent.
D. They obtain lower prices for smaller orders.
86. What do businesses need to maintain in order to produce goods and services for customers?
A. Schedule of accounts
C. Inventory of supplies
B. List of vendors
D. Copies of invoices
87. Production processes that rely heavily on expensive equipment and materials are __________
processes.
A. capital-intensive
C. standardized
B. labor-intensive
D. intermittent
88. If you are in doubt about selecting an item of clothing for work, it is usually best to choose the one that is
A. a current fad.
C. conservative.
B. highly advertised.
D. most eye-catching.
89. Employees who have innovation skills are able to
A. behave aggressively.
B. think in new ways.

C. react to problems.
D. socialize effectively.

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM

90. Setting boundaries is also known as
A. identifying alternatives.
B. establishing criteria.

9

C. pinpointing objectives.
D. making decisions.

91. Which of the following would be most likely to help you to determine whether you can be successful in a
particular line of work:
A. Talking to someone who is currently employed in this field
B. Asking your counselor about opportunities in the field
C. Contacting businesses that are part of the industry
D. Taking courses required of those who do this kind of work
92. When male employees earn more money than female employees for performing the same type of work, a
business is violating the employees' rights to
A. occupational safety.
C. union representation.
B. training and supervision.
D. equal pay.
93. If individuals enjoy operating machinery, driving vehicles, or using tools, they might consider a career that
involves working with
A. people.
C. things.
B. animals.
D. information.
94. Home-based businesses are attractive to many people because the businesses generally
A. require less technical training.
C. yield higher profit margins.
B. provide owners a steady income.
D. have lower start-up costs.
95. Students searching for a job should check the listings posted in the school's
A. guidance office.
C. auditorium.
B. computer lab.
D. athletic department.
96. Which of the following would help a job applicant to fill out job application forms easily:
A. Knowing someone at the business
C. Keeping a file of job leads
B. Having computer experience
D. Having a personal data sheet
97. A job interview follow-up letter can be a valuable tool for applicants who are nervous during a job
interview because the letter can
A. persuade the interviewer to hire them for the job.
B. include anything that the applicant forgot to mention.
C. demonstrate their skill in oral communication.
D. overcome the impression they made during the interview.
98. Writing a letter of application is often an important part of applying for jobs
A. by telephone.
C. online.
B. in person.
D. indirectly.
99. Which of the following is an example of a person obtaining unpaid work experience:
A. Kelly volunteers at a local radio station.
B. Jim hires Kevin to cut his lawn every week.
C. Sarah researches information about different careers.
D. Ben performs contract work for his friend's new company.
100. Each month, Bob, the president of Widgets International, establishes goals for the company. Based on
these goals, he sends specific directions to the managers of each operational division. What
management function is Bob performing?
A. Planning
C. Staffing
B. Organizing
D. Controlling

