KEY
Test Number 1102

Business Administration
Core Exam
PBM - Principles of Business Management and Administration Event
PFN - Principles of Finance Event
PHT - Principles of Hospitality and Tourism Event
PMK - Principles of Marketing Event

CAUTION: Posting these materials on a website is a copyright violation.
This comprehensive exam was developed by the MBAResearch Center exclusively for DECA’s
2014-2015 Competitive Events Program. Items have been randomly selected from the
MBAResearch Test-Item Bank and represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance
indicators for this exam are at the prerequisite and career-sustaining levels. A descriptive test
key, including question sources and answer rationale, has been provided the DECA chartered
association advisor.

Copyright © 2015 by Marketing & Business Administration Research and
Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio (dba MBAResearch). Each individual test item contained
herein is the exclusive property of MBAResearch. Items are licensed to DECA only for use as
configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than as
specifically authorized is prohibited. Possession of this exam, without written authorization,
under any other circumstances is a copyright violation. Posting to inter- or intranet sites is
specifically forbidden unless written permission is obtained prior to posting. Report violations to
DECA at 703.860.5000 and MBAResearch at 800.448.0398. Permission for reprinting is granted
to DECA chartered associations authorized by DECA Inc.
DECA Inc. will impose sanctions on chapters and chartered associations for violations of this policy
up to and including disqualification of competitors and chapters from further participation.

Test 1102

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

13

1. C
Corporation. Stockholders in corporations have limited liability; that is, their losses are limited to the
amount of money that they have invested in the business. Partnerships and sole proprietorships have
unlimited liability, meaning that the business owners are personally liable for debts incurred by the
business. Joint proprietorship is not a form of business ownership.
SOURCE: BL:003
SOURCE: BL LAP 1—Own It Your Way (Business Ownership)
2. B
Government publications. Regardless of whether you are writing a report, preparing for a debate, or
simply learning something new for the fun of it, identifying and reading sources that provide relevant,
valid information about the subject at hand is very important. If you don't use relevant, valid information,
you may write, say, or learn something that is misleading or untrue. A number of criteria are commonly
used to determine if certain written materials are relevant and valid. These criteria include the author's
credibility, the date of publication, the publisher, etc. For instance, if you are researching federal
legislation such as copyright law, you are most likely to read relevant, valid information in government
publications. The government writes and enforces copyright law and other federal legislation, so
government publications about these laws are most likely to be timely, accurate, complete, and on topic.
People commonly express their opinions, not facts, in online discussion forums. Search engines are
software programs that automatically crawl the Web looking for information pertaining to specified search
terms and display a list of results. The search engines themselves do not contain information about
federal legislation; they direct you to other websites—some good and some not so good—about federal
legislation such as copyright law. Political blogs typically reflect the opinions of their writers, so their
information may or may not be relevant or valid.
SOURCE: CO:054
SOURCE: Gil, P. (2014, July). How to properly research on the Internet. Retrieved July 17, 2014, from
http://netforbeginners.about.com/od/navigatingthenet/tp/how_to_research_online.htm
3. B
The use of company property. Businesses often develop employee handbooks, which provide
information about their general policies and procedures. Employee handbooks are usually given to new
employees when they are hired. Employee handbooks usually provide information about overtime and
vacation policies, disciplinary and grievance procedures, pay schedules, dress codes, and behavioral
expectations in its employee handbook. Many employee handbooks include information about employees
and their personal use of company property. Company-property issues that the handbook might address
include making personal long-distance phone calls on the company phone and using the office copy
machine or laser printer for non-business purposes. Lists of the company's current job openings and
personal information about vacation days are usually available through the human-resources department,
and are not included in the employee handbook. Additionally, the company's annual report is not usually
included in the employee handbook. Often, corporations post their annual reports on the company's
website.
SOURCE: CO:057
SOURCE: SmallBusinessNotes.com. (n.d.). Employee handbook. Retrieved July 17, 2014, from
http://www.smallbusinessnotes.com/managing-your-business/employee-handbook.html
4. A
Past experiences. People often think they know what someone is going to say before s/he says it and as
a result do not listen well. People's past experiences may influence how well they listen because they
think they already know the answer or understand the explanation. Effective listeners try to block out past
experiences and focus on what the speaker is saying. Age differences, attention span, and language
skills are other factors that may affect how well people listen.
SOURCE: CO:119
SOURCE: Miculka, J. (2007). Speaking for success (2nd ed.) [pp. 18-22]. Mason, OH: Thomson SouthWestern.

Test 1102

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

14

5. A
Tone of voice. People can change the meaning of their words by changing their tone of voice. For
example, the same words can be a request or a command depending upon the tone used to deliver
them. Tempo is the rate of speed or rhythm the speaker uses. Economy of speech is using as few words
as possible to express an idea. Accuracy refers to the correctness of the message.
SOURCE: CO:147
SOURCE: Hyden, J.S., Jordan, A.K., Steinauer, M.H., & Jones, M.J. (2006). Communicating for
success (3rd ed.) [pp. 74-76]. Mason, OH: Thomson South-Western.
6. C
Conducting research about the company prior to the interview. From the research, Shawn can write a few
questions that directly relate to the company or its industry. Even though additional questions may come
up during the interview, it is always best to be prepared with relevant questions based on research. It is
important that Shawn confirms that the questions are relevant by researching them himself instead of
taking his friends' (or anyone else's) advice. Questions about the interviewer's personal life are not
relevant to the job interview.
SOURCE: CO:058
SOURCE: Bailey, L.J. (2007). Working (4th ed.) [p. 65]. Mason, OH: South-Western Cengage Learning.
7. D
Follow up with the customer after obtaining the requested information. When employees do not know the
answer to their customers' questions, they should take steps to get the answers. This often involves
researching the problem or issue. When extensive research is required, an employee should obtain the
customer's contact information and call him/her back with the requested information after the research
has been completed. The nature of the inquiry determines if literature should be sent to the customer or if
another employee or manager should answer the customer's inquiry. For example, a question about a bill
may be better answered by an accounts-receivable employee than a purchasing agent. And, in this
situation, it would be inappropriate to send product information.
SOURCE: CO:060
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.)
[pp. 544, 548-549]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co.
8. A
Employees process information differently. Because there are different ways that people process
information, it is important to consider those differences when providing employees with verbal directions.
For example, audio learners are more comfortable with sound and dialog, so when giving directions, it is
beneficial to speak clearly and use terminology that the listeners can relate to. Sometimes this involves
using a metaphor or simile to make a point. Diagrams and pictures are often useful when providing
directions to visual learners. For learners who are motion-oriented, demonstrating the activity often
reinforces the verbal explanation and makes it easier for employees to understand. This might include an
actual demonstration or a video of a demonstration. It's always a good idea to ask the employees if they
understand the directions because they may be too embarrassed to ask questions—even if they are
confused. Presenting the directions in reverse order may confuse the employees.
SOURCE: CO:083
SOURCE: Bock, W. (2006, September 20). How to give better instructions. Retrieved July 17, 2014,
from http://ezinearticles.com/?How-to-Give-Better-Instructions&id=305933
9. D
Logical evidence. Being prepared will help individuals remain objective and able to offer logical evidence
to back up their ideas. They should be prepared to explain supporting information because others may
have questions or concerns about the ideas. Using logical evidence, such as related statistics or facts,
will help individuals defend their ideas because they are relying on valid evidence rather than personal
opinions. Individuals who defend their ideas objectively do not use emotional information, personal
opinions, or unrelated statistics.
SOURCE: CO:061
SOURCE: Hyden, J.S., Jordan, A.K., Steinauer, M.H., & Jones, M.J. (2006). Communicating for
success (3rd ed.) [pp. 335-336]. Mason, OH: Thomson South-Western.

Test 1102

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

15

10. D
Enunciate clearly. Enunciating clearly involves speaking clearly and distinctly, which makes the message
easy for the listener to follow. The message may not be clear if employees mumble or speak rapidly. It is
sometimes useful to have notes when speaking on the telephone, but it is not always necessary. Other
guidelines to follow are to use appropriate vocabulary and to avoid using an excessive amount of "filler"
words, such as "um" and "uh." Fillers words can be distracting and often indicate that the speaker is
unsure about what s/he is saying.
SOURCE: CO:114
SOURCE: Hyden, J.S., Jordan, A.K., Steinauer, M.H., & Jones, M.J. (2006). Communicating for
success (3rd ed.) [pp. 85-89]. Mason, OH: Thomson South-Western.
11. B
Be accurate. When you state a fact, it's important to be accurate. Make sure you can support your
statement. Don't generalize. Stating a fact is not usually about thinking before you speak (as in stating an
opinion) or about changing your mind (as in hearing a fact stated by another person).
SOURCE: CO:053
SOURCE: QS LAP 29—Put In Your Two Cents
12. C
Listen carefully. Brooke must listen to the speaker so she can identify the key points that she wants to
write down. By noting the key points, Brooke will be able to refer the most important information when
she needs it later. Effective note-taking does not involve answering questions or expressing opinions.
Brooke might need her notes to develop a briefing, which is a summary of important information or
instructions.
SOURCE: CO:085
SOURCE: Illinois State University. (n.d.). Evaluate your present note-taking system: Guidelines for
note-taking. Retrieved July 17, 2014, from
http://universitycollege.illinoisstate.edu/downloads/Notetaking%20%28Standford%20PDF%2
9.pdf
13. A
Flowchart. Some graphics that are used in business reports are textual (text-oriented) because their
content is presented in the form of words and numbers. An example of a textual graphic is a flowchart
that presents the sequence of activities in a process. A common flowchart is an organizational chart that
depicts the hierarchy of positions and departments within an organization. Pictographs, maps, and pie
charts are considered visual graphics rather than textual graphics. Although they may contain some
words and numbers, they also contain visuals such as bars, columns, and drawings.
SOURCE: CO:087
SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., & Thill, J.V. (2008). Business communication today (9th ed.) [pp. 378-379].
Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.
14. D
All the necessary information. When preparing written communication, one of the most important rules is
to be thorough and provide all the necessary information because the receiver may not have the
opportunity to ask questions in person. Letters confirming customer orders should answer the questions
of who, what, when, and where by including specific information about ordered items, quantity, delivery
address, etc. The letters should contain all the necessary information to verify that what the business
intends to provide is exactly what the customers have requested. Whether product ratings and grades,
exchange rates, and a map of all business locations are necessary information to include in a
confirmation letter depends on the type of business and the customer's needs.
SOURCE: CO:016
SOURCE: Stutts, A.T., & Wortman, J.F. (2006). Hotel and lodging management: An introduction
(2nd ed.) [p. 124]. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons.

Test 1102

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

16

15. B
Identifying the sequential steps of a process. When describing activities that need to be done in a specific
order, the writer might want to number the steps to set the process apart from the text and to clarify the
process. One testimonial or a single piece of information does not require a numerical designation to
reinforce the order of content. Charts are graphics that summarize numerical data. A narrative writing
format is usually most appropriate when providing an example to clarify a concept.
SOURCE: CO:088
SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., & Thill, J.V. (2008). Business communication today (9th ed.) [p.155]. Upper
Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.
16. C
To explain new policies. One of the main functions of an informational message is to provide information
to readers in such a way that they understand the message. A type of written information that businesses
often provide to customers is an explanation of new policies and how those policies will affect customers.
For example, if a business is changing its credit policy, it wants to inform customers about the change
and let them know that the change will benefit them. Research reports are an in-depth study of a specific
business problem or situation. Businesses write informational messages to inform rather than to obtain
feedback. Analyzing sales proposals involves reviewing information.
SOURCE: CO:039
SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., & Thill, J.V. (2008). Business communication today (9th ed.) [pp. 230-233].
Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.
17. C
To develop ad campaigns for clients. Account executives often participate in meetings with clients and
other advertising agency staff to develop ad campaigns for the clients. The purpose of the meeting is to
identify the clients' advertising needs, discuss ways of satisfying those needs, and design a successful
campaign. In many cases, there are problems to solve because the client may have a limited advertising
budget or specific requirements for the campaign. Account executives usually do not schedule production
facilities. Media buyers are responsible for placing ads. Copywriters write copy for promotional brochures.
These activities often take place after the meeting phase in order to implement the ad campaign.
SOURCE: CO:067
SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., & Thill, J.V. (2008). Business communication today (9th ed.) [p. 46]. Upper
Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.
18. A
A unique individual. Each individual customer has his or her own basic personality, and s/he reacts in
different ways to salespeople. Employees should be friendly and courteous to all and adapt to each
customer's behavior in a positive manner. Considering each customer as a possible problem is a
negative approach that would probably prevent good customer relations. Not all customers are in a hurry.
SOURCE: CR:003
SOURCE: CR LAP 1—Accentuate the Positive (Nature of Customer Relations)
19. D
Maintaining a positive attitude. A business's service orientation is its philosophy of providing quality
service. To express its service orientation, a business uses various communication channels, one of
which is the business's employees. The employees' verbal cues (e.g., words, tone of voice) and
nonverbal cues (e.g., hygiene, dress, gestures, facial expressions) convey their personal attitudes, which
customers often believe are a reflection of the business's attitudes. Employees who convey a positive
attitude are willing to help customers. They convey this attitude by knowing the product and by being
courteous and empathetic with their customers. Service-oriented employees also listen to their customers
and help them resolve problems when possible, rather than referring complaints to coworkers. While it is
important for employees to help customers, they are not always in a position to offer deep discounts.
SOURCE: CR:005
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.)
[pp. 537, 546-547]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co.

Test 1102

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

17

20. A
To make sure the business's actions are consistent. Business policies keep the day-to-day operations
running smoothly and consistently. Policies ensure that employees will handle the same situations in the
same manner, rather than making decisions regarding each customer, because the policies provide
guidelines for employees to follow. Business policies cannot ensure profits. Policies usually set rules for
exchanges of goods, but they do not encourage customers to make exchanges frequently.
SOURCE: CR:007
SOURCE: Rue, L.W., & Byars, L.L. (2006). Business management: Real-world applications and
connections (pp. 241-242). Woodland Hills, CA: Glencoe/McGraw Hill.
21. D
Maintain eye contact. As an employee, you want to show customers that you want to listen. To do this,
you should maintain eye contact, look and act interested, avoid doing other things, concentrate on what
the customer is saying, and ask questions to clarify, when appropriate. You should strive to minimize
your talking while maximizing your active listening. Defending company policy before the customer has
finished speaking may make the customer angry. Also, you should not raise your voice; instead, talk
softly and slowly. Remember, customers take their cues from you.
SOURCE: CR:009
SOURCE: CR LAP 3—Making Mad Glad (Handling Difficult Customers)
22. C
Yes, because the salesperson does not have an opportunity to handle the complaint. Salespeople are
not able to satisfy noncomplainers because they do not express their dissatisfaction to anyone
associated with the business. They do, however, express ill feelings to friends, to relatives, and to
coworkers. In this way, they create a poor image of the business. Because of this, they are a much
bigger problem than complainers. Once salespeople know the source of customer complaints, they can
seek ways to satisfy the complainers within company guidelines.
SOURCE: CR:010
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (pp. 241-242).
Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
23. D
Consistent follow-through. A brand promise is a company's agreement, spoken or unspoken, with
customers that it will meet their expectations and deliver on its brand characteristics and values. A
company must follow through by performing certain actions in consistent ways to fulfill that promise. Both
long- and short-term planning can help the company develop strategies to carry out the brand promise;
however, unless the strategies are carried out consistently, the planning efforts are useless. Ongoing
promotion helps maintain brand awareness, but it does not fulfill the company's commitment to the
customer through product quality, service, etc. The company's profits involve setting internal goals rather
than carrying out promises made to customers.
SOURCE: CR:001
SOURCE: Kavanaugh, S. (2007, August 5). Successful brand-five key elements and one mantra.
Retrieved July 21, 2014, from http://ezinearticles.com/?Successful-Branding—-Five-KeyElements-and-One-Mantra&id=675985
24. B
Specialty. Specialty goods are consumer goods with special or unique characteristics that consumers are
willing to exert special efforts to obtain. The specialty item Keisha desires will take a lot of money and
effort to acquire. A shopping good is a consumer good purchased after consumers compare goods and
stores in order to get the best quality, price, and/or service. Keisha is not concerned with price. A
convenience good is a consumer good purchased quickly and without much thought or effort. Keisha has
put a lot of thought into this purchase. Industrial goods are purchased for resale, not consumer usage.
SOURCE: EC:002
SOURCE: EC LAP 10—Get the Goods on Goods and Services (Economic Goods and Services)

Test 1102

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

18

25. D
Meet unlimited human wants. Economics is the study of how people satisfy unlimited, competing,
economic wants with limited resources. Although human wants are unlimited, the resources we have
available to satisfy the wants are limited. The public debt and the role of government are governmental
responsibilities. Economics does not increase the basic value of products.
SOURCE: EC:001
SOURCE: EC LAP 6—Are You Satisfied? (Economics and Economic Activities)
26. C
Customer. The marketing concept is based on the belief that all business activities should be aimed
toward satisfying customer wants and needs. In other words, the customer is at the heart of the
marketing concept. The marketing concept is not about the needs and wants of the marketer, wholesaler,
or retailer.
SOURCE: EC:004
SOURCE: EC LAP 13—Use It (Economic Utility)
27. B
Increase. Demand is the amount of an item customers can and will purchase. When price decreases, the
demand for a product usually increases. The demand usually does not remain the same, fluctuate, or
decrease.
SOURCE: EC:006
SOURCE: EC LAP 12—When More is Less (Functions of Prices)
28. D
Maximizing. The more profit the company makes, the more it can grow, providing better salaries to its
workers, more jobs in the community, and making possible larger charitable contributions and other
benefits to society. None of these would be possible if the company reduces, divides, or controls its
profits.
SOURCE: EC:070
SOURCE: EC LAP 20—Business Connections (Business and Society)
29. C
Contributing to worthy causes. When businesses make profits, they are more likely to contribute to
worthy causes that help improve the communities in which they are located. They may provide funds to
support higher education or to fight poverty and disease. Investing in foreign companies, building facilities
in other cities, and increasing salaries of executives would not help improve the local community.
SOURCE: EC:010
SOURCE: EC LAP 2—Risk Rewarded (Factors Affecting Profit)
30. B
Transferring. The business has transferred the risk to the insurance company. The business will pay the
insurance company fees called premiums in order to be reimbursed by the insurance company if its
trucks are damaged, stolen, or wrecked. A risk is being avoided if it is recognized and eliminated. A
business is retaining, or keeping, a risk if it does nothing about it. A risk is being controlled when
measures are taken to prevent or reduce the risk factor.
SOURCE: EC:011
SOURCE: EC LAP 3—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk)
31. A
Price fixing. Price fixing eliminates competition and is illegal. Price indexing is a method of measuring
inflation. Price controls are used by the government to set prices for certain products and/or industries.
Price discrimination occurs when businesses charge customers different prices for similar amounts and
types of goods. It is also illegal.
SOURCE: EC:012
SOURCE: EC LAP 8—Ready, Set, Compete! (Competition)

Test 1102

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

19

32. B
Zoning laws. Government passes zoning laws to protect the value of business property by allowing only
certain types of businesses to occupy an area. Minimum-wage laws, safety standards, and consumerprotection laws are all examples of areas of government involvement, but they are not related to
protecting business property.
SOURCE: EC:008
SOURCE: EC LAP 16—Regulate and Protect (Government and Business)
33. A
Proactive behavior. Overlaps of leadership and emotional intelligence include proactive behavior,
perseverance, positive working relationships, and confidence. Proactive behavior is taking action before
problems develop. Although creativity may be helpful to a leader, it is not a leadership skill that overlaps
with the skills of emotional intelligence. Adaptability is accepting change without becoming fearful or
angry. A positive attitude is being optimistic and willing to start new projects without all the details.
Adaptability and a positive attitude are characteristics of self-management.
SOURCE: EI:001
SOURCE: EI LAP 6—EQ and You (Emotional Intelligence)
34. D
Prejudice. Prejudice is an opinion or judgment that is based on feelings or hearsay, rather than fact.
Prejudice is an attitude, not an act. An employer who thinks that all young people are lazy and poorly
trained is exhibiting prejudice because the employer is putting all young people into one category and is
not considering individual differences. If employers refuse to hire young people because they are
prejudiced against them, the employers are guilty of discrimination, which is unfair treatment of a person
or a group based on the person's or group's characteristics, e.g., race, gender, age, etc. Harassment is
any kind of behavior toward another person that is carried out for the purpose of annoying or threatening
the individual. Hostility involves acting in an unfriendly or menacing manner.
SOURCE: EI:017
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (p. 187). New York:
Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
35. C
Identify one strength for every weakness. Although an important aspect of self-assessment is evaluating
your weaknesses, obsessing over them will only discourage you. If you identify one strength for every
weakness, you will have a more accurate, realistic assessment of yourself. Comparing yourself to others
and making false generalizations may also hinder your ability to accurately assess yourself. Asking
others for both positive and negative feedback is an important aspect of the self-assessment process, but
it is counter-productive to obsess over the negative feedback.
SOURCE: EI:002
SOURCE: EI LAP 17—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses)
36. D
Jane believes that she can respond to unknown circumstances in a positive, calm way. Self-confidence is
a positive belief in your own talents, skills, and objectives. Because Jane believes that she can respond
to unknown circumstances in a positive way, she is a self-confident person. Being nervous, being
embarrassed, and being frustrated may indicate a lack of self-confidence.
SOURCE: EI:023
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (p. 119). New York:
Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
37. A
Asking irrelevant questions. Any questions should be relevant to the customer's wants and needs in
order to indicate your interest in meeting those needs. Choosing positive words, speaking in an
expressive manner, and listening are all ways to exhibit interest and enthusiasm.
SOURCE: EI:020
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006) Succeeding in the workd of work (pp. 181-186). New
York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.

Test 1102

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

20

38. C
Initiative. Initiative is defined as the willingness to act without having to be told to do so, or the willingness
to accept or seek additional or unpleasant duties. The employee who offers to help another is showing
initiative by seeking additional duties. Empathy means the ability to put yourself in another person's
place. Assertiveness is behavior that is characterized by respect for personal rights as well as for the
rights of others. Honesty is truthfulness.
SOURCE: EI:024
SOURCE: EI LAP 2—Hustle! (Taking Initiative at Work)
39. C
Stealing from the company. Don and his coworkers are stealing time from the company because they are
not working during all of the hours for which they are being paid. Allocating a certain amount of time for a
lunch break is routine business procedure, not a fringe benefit. These employees are demonstrating that
they do not follow ethical principles or act in a trustworthy manner.
SOURCE: EI:022
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 236).
Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
40. A
Attitude. Attitudes are very personal feelings and values. Attitudes may be positive or negative. Values
are ideas, beliefs, etc., held by an individual. Aptitude is possessing the skill or ability to do something.
Motives are the reasons underlying an individual's behavior.
SOURCE: EI:019
SOURCE: EI LAP 3—Opt for Optimism (Positive Attitude)
41. B
"I'm sorry; I don't know how I overlooked it." In order to benefit from criticism, start by admitting you were
wrong. This can be hard to do, or embarrassing, but you can learn to do it. Even when the criticism is
justified, as it was in Ed's case, the person making the criticism will have more respect for you if you
accept blame. All of the other alternatives are excuses.
SOURCE: EI:003
SOURCE: EI LAP 15—Grin and Bear It (Using Feedback for Personal Growth)
42. A
"I am so sorry. I understand how difficult that must have been for you." Empathy is the ability to put
yourself in another person's place. It enables you to imagine how the other person sees things and feels
about them. The other alternatives are comments that do not involve empathy.
SOURCE: EI:030
SOURCE: EI LAP 12—Have a Heart (Showing Empathy to Others)
43. B
Cultural sensitivity. The willingness to adjust your opinions and behaviors so that you value different
people and ideas is cultural sensitivity. Communication is an exchange of information. Prejudice is an
opinion or judgment that is based on feeling or hearsay, rather than fact. Ethnocentrism is the belief that
your own culture is naturally better than other cultures.
SOURCE: EI:033
SOURCE: EI LAP 11—Getting to Know You (Cultural Sensitivity)
44. B
"I already have plans for Friday, but I'd be glad to help you on Saturday." Assertive behavior is
characterized by respect for personal rights as well as for the rights of others. "Well, I did have plans for
tonight, but I guess I can change them," represents passive behavior. Passive behavior is characterized
by a failure to exercise personal rights and a lack of respect for personal needs. The remaining
alternatives represent aggressive behavior, which is characterized by a willingness to ignore the rights of
others and to exploit them in order to achieve personal goals.
SOURCE: EI:008
SOURCE: EI LAP 18—Assert Yourself (Assertiveness)

Test 1102

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

21

45. C
The issue is not very important. The way a person reacts to conflict is called his/her conflict response
mode. The yielding response mode means that one party accommodates or gives in to the other party's
request. Yielding is most appropriate when the issue isn't very important, such as deciding where to go to
lunch. Bullying tactics are characteristic of the forcing conflict response mode. This often involves
physical or emotional abuse, is hurtful to relationships, and is inappropriate to use. A person who wants
to look at all sides of the issue is using the problem-solving response mode. A person using the
withdrawal response mode tries to ignore or avoid the conflict. This response mode often increases the
person's level of stress because s/he is always thinking about how to avoid the other person who is
involved in the conflict.
SOURCE: EI:015
SOURCE: EI LAP 7—Stop the Madness (Conflict Resolution in Business)
46. A
Work team. A work team is a group of employees which is responsible for carrying out an entire work
process. This might include all the steps in producing a product, performing a service, or running a
section of the business. A quality circle is a problem-solving group of coworkers who are given work
situations or problems to study and discuss in order to recommend solutions to management. A project
team is a team of employees from different parts of the company who are assigned to work together on a
specific project. A short-term committee has an immediate goal, such as obtaining speakers for a
conference.
SOURCE: EI:045
SOURCE: DuBrin, A.J. (2007). Fundamentals of organizational behavior (4th ed.) [p. 212]. Mason, OH:
Thomson South-Western.
47. B
Responsibility. Fulfilling one's obligations in a dependable, reliable manner is known as responsibility,
and it is an important leadership characteristic. When a leader is responsible, s/he takes ownership of
problems, makes sure they are fixed, and takes steps to prevent them from happening again. Flexibility,
also called adaptability, is the ability to adapt to changes as they occur. Social awareness is the ability to
know and understand others' emotions; it is part of emotional intelligence.
SOURCE: EI:009
SOURCE: EI LAP 16—Lead the Way (Concept of Leadership)
48. A
Developing an action plan for each goal. By planning ahead for how he will overcome potential obstacles,
Trey is developing an action plan for his goal. This will make it easier to face roadblocks if and when they
pop up. In this scenario, Trey is not putting his goals in writing, reviewing and revising his goals, or
making sure they are compatible with each other.
SOURCE: EI:027
SOURCE: EI LAP 10—High Hopes (Developing an Achievement Orientation)
49. A
Initiating a meeting about updating your employee break room. Initiating a meeting about a needed
change at work is leading change. The change is happening because of you. Learning that you've
received a promotion, losing a customer to a competing firm, and getting a new coworker from another
department are all changes, but they are changes that are happening to you instead of changes that
you've initiated.
SOURCE: EI:005
SOURCE: EI LAP 22—Start the Revolution (Leading Change)
50. A
Form and conduct relationships. When you study human relations, you examine the ways that people
form and conduct relationships with one another. Relationships between people are often very complex
and can be either effective or ineffective. They are affected by people's personal styles, their opinions,
and their communication skills.
SOURCE: EI:037
SOURCE: EI LAP 5—Can You Relate? (Positive Working Relationships)

Test 1102

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

22

51. B
Credit. Credit is the arrangement in which businesses and individuals can purchase now and pay later.
One option businesses have to obtain credit is to secure credit cards from lending institutions.
Businesses can obtain the goods and services they need right away, such as airline tickets and supplies,
and then pay for the items when they receive their statement from their lending institutions. Businesses
often purchase the things they need to operate effectively online. In fact, many web-based businesses
will only accept credit cards as a form of payment. Debit cards, ATM cards, and store-value (gift) cards
do not delay payment.
SOURCE: FI:058
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 367).
Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
52. D
Dividends. Individuals and businesses acquire income in many ways. Dividends are earnings that are
paid to investors or stockholders for their investments. When Pedro purchased shares of Tabor stock, he
became an owner of the company. As an owner of the company, Pedro has the opportunity to earn a
percentage of the company's profits, which are paid to him in the form of dividends. Wages are the
income that workers earn for the work that they perform. Interest is the reward or cost of lending or
borrowing money, usually figured as a percentage of the amount borrowed. An inheritance is the assets
(e.g., property, goods, money) that a person leaves to others upon his/her death.
SOURCE: FI:061
SOURCE: Kapoor, J.R., Dlabay, L.R., & Hughes, R.J. (2009). Personal finance (9th ed.) [pp. 447-448].
New York: McGraw-Hill Irwin.
53. A
Convenience. Credit allows businesses and consumers to pay for several different purchases at one time
with a single payment. It reduces the need to carry cash and provides the convenience of ordering by
telephone. Collateral is anything of value belonging to the borrower which is pledged to the lender to
guarantee that the loan will be repaid. Interest is the fee which lenders charge borrowers for the use of
credit. Credit does not provide reassurance or comfort.
SOURCE: FI:002
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.)
[p. 380]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co.
54. A
Own the item. When an item is purchased, money is exchanged for the right to own the item. Using credit
may be part of the purchase process. Filing a claim may occur later if the buyer's (or seller's) rights were
not upheld. Paying for the item is the process of exchanging money during a purchase.
SOURCE: FI:063
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.)
[pp. 42-43]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co.
55. A
Written down. People who have written goals accomplish 50 to 100 times more than people who do not.
You are not more likely to achieve goals that are based on needs only or that are long- or short-term.
SOURCE: FI:065
SOURCE: QS LAP 31—Set Yourself Up
56. B
Car payment. Developing a personal budget helps individuals manage their income and expenses. An
important consideration in budgeting involves identifying fixed expenses, which are the expenses (cash
outflows) that do not fluctuate or change from month to month. Car payments, insurance, and rent are
examples of fixed expenses. Groceries, home repairs, and clothing are variable expenses, or expenses
that may fluctuate slightly from month to month.
SOURCE: FI:066
SOURCE: Ryan, J.S. (2010). Managing your personal finances (6th ed.) [p. 165]. Mason, OH: SouthWestern Cengage Learning.

Test 1102

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

23

57. B
Gross pay. Gross pay is the total income earned for the pay period before income taxes and other
deductions are subtracted from the wages. Net pay is the amount of money that the worker receives after
the taxes and other deductions have been subtracted from his/her wages. Tax-exempt income includes
revenues that are not taxed, such as tax refunds, veteran's benefits, and welfare benefits. Overtime
income is the amount of money that an hourly worker earns for working more hours than s/he is normally
scheduled to work.
SOURCE: FI:068
SOURCE: Guerrieri, D.J., Haber, F.B., Hoyt, W.B., & Turner, R.E. (2012). Accounting: Real-world
applications & connections: First-year course (pp. 314-316). Columbus, OH: McGraw-Hill.
58. D
As soon as each check is written. To keep accurate records, you need to record all information in the
check register as each transaction occurs. Otherwise, the date, check number, or check amount may be
recorded inaccurately. Waiting to record check information can result in difficulties with balancing bank
statements when they arrive. This could also result in checks being returned to you for inadequate funds.
SOURCE: FI:069
SOURCE: Credit Union National Association. (2008). The balancing act part 1: Keep good records.
Retrieved August 8, 2011, from
http://googolplex.cuna.org/12433/cnote/article.php?doc_id=1608
59. A
Annual percentage rate. The annual percentage rate (APR) is the interest paid on the portion of the bill
Sheila does not pay each month. An annual fee is a once-a-year payment made to the credit card
company that permits the person to use the company's credit card. A late fee is issued when a person
does not submit any payment at all by the monthly due date. An overdraft fee is charged by a bank when
a customer writes a check for more money than is in his/her checking account.
SOURCE: FI:071
SOURCE: Gerson, E.S., & Woolsey, B. (2014). Picking the right card: Comparing the various types of
credit cards. Retrieved July 21, 2014, from http://www.creditcards.com/credit-cardnews/help/types-of-credit-cards-6000.php
60. A
Use secure web browsers when purchasing online. Identity theft occurs when an individual obtains and
uses another person's information (e.g., credit cards) without that person's consent. To reduce the risk of
identity theft, people should use secure web browsers to make purchases. Because Internet sales
transactions often require a person to provide credit card information, it is important to make sure that the
web browsers are secure. Using secure websites reduces the risk of computer hackers obtaining
confidential information for fraudulent purposes. Another way to reduce the risk of identity theft is to
memorize passwords. If a personal planner is stolen, the risk of identity theft goes because the
passwords are written down. Also, people should not share bank account numbers with others. When
more people know an individual's banking information, the risk of identity theft increases. Everyday cash
transactions do not require a purchaser to provide personal information and, therefore, do not pose a
high risk for identity theft.
SOURCE: FI:073
SOURCE: StaySaleOnline.org. (2014). Online shopping: It's important to take steps to protect yourself
when shopping online. Retrieved July 21, 2014, from http://www.staysafeonline.org/staysafe-online/protect-your-personal-information/online-shopping
61. C
Tax deductions. Tax deductions are expenses that can be subtracted from gross income. For example,
charitable donations can be claimed as tax deductions on an individual's personal tax return. The tax filer
may need to provide a receipt for donations that exceed a certain amount of money. Other examples of
tax deductible expenses include college tuition, home-mortgage interest, and child care. Charitable
donations are not claimed on tax returns as public property, living expenses, or discretionary income.
SOURCE: FI:074
SOURCE: Campbell, S.R. (2010). Foundations of personal finance: Teacher's Edition (p. 164). Tinley
Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Company.

Test 1102

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

24

62. C
Bonds. A lending investment is one in which a lender allows a borrower to use his/her money during a
period of time for a specified fee or rate of interest. A bond is a type of lending investment in which
individuals lend money to a government, municipality, or corporation to earn a set rate of interest for a
specified time period. Homes, antiques, and stocks are ownership investments.
SOURCE: FI:077
SOURCE: Dlabay, L.R., & Burrow, J.L. (2008). Business finance (p. 204). South-Western Cengage
Learning.
63. B
Anyone who needs to use it. Financial information is not useful unless it is understandable by anyone
who needs to use it. This might include more than just accountants and managers. Not everyone who
needs to use financial information will have a background in finance. Financial information may not be
understandable to every single person, but that doesn't mean it isn't useful—it just has to be understood
by the people who need to use it.
SOURCE: FI:579
SOURCE: FI LAP 9—By the Numbers (The Need for Financial Information)
64. A
Tracking financial transactions. Accounting is the process of keeping and interpreting financial records.
The financial records include a variety of data, such as monies received from sales transactions and
monies paid to others (e.g., vendors) to cover expenses. Advertising activities are elements of the
business's promotional function. Warehousing refers to the storage of goods for use by the business or
for resale. Employees use production equipment to a make a good or to facilitate a service the business
sells.
SOURCE: FI:085
SOURCE: FI LAP 5—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting)
65. A
Presents financial information in a consistent format. Accounting standards (e.g., generally accepted
accounting principles) are rules that accountants use to prepare and summarize financial reports.
Because accountants use the same standards and rules, accounting information is consistent and clear
to all of the people who read, interpret, and work with financial information. Summarizing data in different
ways and identifying inconsistent business procedures are not advantages of using accounting
standards. To be in compliance, businesses must fully disclose important financial data.
SOURCE: FI:086
SOURCE: Dlabay, L.R., & Burrow, J.L. (2008). Business finance (pp. 102, 106-107). South-Western
Cengage Learning.
66. A
False; in companies without HR departments, other managers and supervisors participate in HR
management activities. Human resources management is a function of business, as well as a
department. In other words, bigger companies may have a great number of employees dedicated solely
to managing human resources, but in small businesses without an official “HR department,” this
important function still remains. And, even in big companies, human resources management is not
contained solely within the HR department—supervisors and managers across the organization also take
some part in managing human resources, although their level of involvement varies from business to
business. Smaller companies need HR management as much as bigger ones, and HR managers aren't
the only ones who can complete these activities. Not all employees will participate in HR activities,
however.
SOURCE: HR:410
SOURCE: HR LAP 35—People Pusher (Nature of Human Resources Management)

Test 1102

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

25

67. A
Promotion. The example illustrates an advertising activity that is part of the promotion function.
Purchasing is a business activity necessary to obtain goods and services for use in the operation of a
business. Selling is responding to customer needs and wants through planned, personalized
communication that influences purchase decisions and enhances future business opportunities.
Product/Service management is the marketing function that involves obtaining, developing, maintaining,
and improving a product or service mix in response to market opportunities.
SOURCE: MK:002
SOURCE: MK LAP 1—Work the Big Six (Marketing Functions)
68. D
An article written by a Harvard economics professor that was published in a business magazine last
month. When evaluating the quality of online information, it is important to consider factors such as the
source type, the author's expertise, and the publication date. The Harvard professor has extensive
knowledge about the topic of economics. The article was published last month, so it likely reflects current
events and is up to date. A college student and a 16-year-old entrepreneur do not have the level of
expertise that the professor has. The 2009 report and a 2005 textbook are not as up to date as an article
written last month.
SOURCE: NF:079
SOURCE: Rogier, M. (2014, June 23). How to determine the validity of a research article. Retrieved
July 21, 2014, from http://www.ehow.com/how_5035804_determine-validity-researcharticle.html
69. D
Updated. Obsolescence occurs when something is outdated. Technology is always evolving, so
computer systems and applications are always subject to obsolescence. Businesses must update the
ways in which they store or archive their information because the format may not be usable in the future.
For example, modern computers do not have outlets that read floppy disks, which were popular external
storage devices several years ago. The way people summarize or process information is not related to
the state of obsolescence.
SOURCE: NF:081
SOURCE: Fiddes, R. (2010, February 5). Dangers of outdated backup solutions. Retrieved July 21,
2014, from http://www.backupreview.info/2010/02/05/backup-technology-online-backupexpert-tips-dangers-of-outdated-backup-solutions/
70. C
It may be one part of a business's overall information management program. A management information
system (MIS) is a form of technology that assists with a business's information management needs. It is
not the same thing as an information management program; however, it may be one part of an overall
information management program. An MIS is just hardware and software, but an overall information
management program involves people, processes, and practices.
SOURCE: NF:110
SOURCE: NF LAP 3—In the Know (Nature of Information Management)
71. B
It permanently stores the computer program files and data. The hard drive is the component of the
computer's central processing unit (CPU) that stores the computer's program files and inputted data. A
sound card is a device that transmits sound waves through the computer so the user can hear audio
elements. A computer monitor allows the user to view the computer data. The power supply transmits
power to other computer devices (e.g., printer) so they can operate.
SOURCE: NF:084
SOURCE: Microsoft. (2014). Parts of a computer. Retrieved July 21, 2014, from
http://windows.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/computer-parts#1TC=windows-7

Test 1102

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

26

72. D
Windows. Microsoft Windows is one of the most popular operating systems. The operating system
manages the hardware and software and makes the computer work. The system connects the software
to the hardware and controls the overall operation of the computer. Excel, Oracle, and Adobe are
software programs rather than operating systems.
SOURCE: NF:085
SOURCE: Goodwill Community Foundation. (1998-2014). What is an operating system? Retrieved July
21, 2014, from http://www.gcflearnfree.org/computerbasics/2
73. D
Email inquiry field. Many businesses provide a feedback option on their websites that enables customers
to email the business concerning problems or to ask questions. The email inquiry field is an effective
method of providing customer service as long as the business responds in an appropriate amount of
time. A portable document format allows users to view files created by another operating system. An
electronic file attachment allows a user to send an attachment with an email message. Computer
programming code is used to create software, web pages, etc.
SOURCE: NF:004
SOURCE: CT-CLIC.com. (2007-2014). Online inquiry form. Retrieved July 21, 2014, from http://www.ctclic.com/ContactForm/default.asp
74. A
Track their appointments. Cellular telephones are available with many options. Many cell phones have
calendar and scheduling applications that allow users to set and track their tasks and appointments. Cell
phones may also include Internet access to check email, text-messaging functions to send text
messages to clients, and global positioning systems (GPS), which are navigational tools that help users
to obtain driving directions.
SOURCE: NF:005
SOURCE: eHow.com. (1999-2014). How to use a cell phone calendar. Retrieved July 21, 2014, from
http://www.ehow.com/how_4444117_use-cell-phone-calendar.html#
75. A
Font. The format bar or ribbon sits above the document. It provides a set of buttons that enables users to
change or format different aspects of the document. The font buttons in the format bar include the an
option that enables users to change the size of text. Other buttons in the font format bar enable users to
bold or italicize text or change the typeface or color of the text. The paragraph, replace, and view buttons
do not enable users to change the size of the text.
SOURCE: NF:007
SOURCE: Comptuer Hope. (2014). How do I change the font color, size, or type in Word? Retrieved
July 17, 2014, from http://www.computerhope.com/issues/ch000829.htm
76. D
Database. Database software allows companies to collect, store, and organize customer information.
This information can be used to maintain, analyze, and combine customer information and to send
postcards to specific customers. Word-processing, spreadsheet, and desktop publishing software do not
perform the functions required by the dealer.
SOURCE: NF:009
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (pp. 213-214).
Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
77. B
Integrated. Integrated software applications consist of two or more related computer programs that work
together to record information or perform specific business tasks or functions. An example of integrated
software is Microsoft Office—it consists of several related programs, such as word-processing (Word),
spreadsheet (Excel), presentation (PowerPoint), and database (Access). Trajectory software is used to
measure velocity, wind drift, momentum, etc.
SOURCE: NF:088
SOURCE: BusinessDictionary.com. (2014). Integrated software. Retrieved July 21, 2014, from
http://www.businessdictionary.com/definition/integrated-software.html

Test 1102

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

27

78. C
Allow employees to have access to the same information. Employees often work together to complete
projects, and many of these employees work in different locations. Groupware computer software allows
employees to share and access the same information from a variety of locations. The ability to access
the same information allows each employee to have the necessary data to complete his/her portion of the
project in a timely manner. By completing projects in a timely manner, businesses are in a better position
to satisfy clients/customers and earn profits, which might increase their market share. Some businesses
use groupware computer software to exchange information with their customers, but this depends on the
type of business and the relationship with the customer. Groupware computer software can be used in
many ways, including training, but the primary purpose is to make information available to the people
who need it.
SOURCE: NF:011
SOURCE: Marotta, L. (2006, October 3). Utilizing the full advantages of groupware applications to boost
team collaboration. Retrieved July 21, 2014, from http://www.web-conferencingzone.com/advantages-of-groupware-applications.htm
79. A
Web host, domain name. After creating a web page, the developer needs to post the web page through a
web host (web server) or Internet service provider (IPS). The web host may charge a fee to post and
store the web page, although some web hosts will provide the service free of charge. The domain name
is the business's web address. Internet users enter the web address to view Stella's website. Stella can
register her domain name directly with the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers
(ICANN). Or, Stella can work with her web host to register the domain name for her. Stella does not need
to register a hyperlink, media permit, or file link with any organization. A hyperlink (link) is the component
of an electronic document (file) that can be clicked on in order to jump to another place within the
document or into a different document. A modem is an internal or external computer communications
device that is used to transmit information over a particular medium such as telephone lines or television
cables. Ethernet is a local area network.
SOURCE: NF:042
SOURCE: WebHostingSearch.com. (2012, January 8). Publishing your website in three steps Retrieved
July 21, 2014, from http://www.webhostingsearch.com/articles/how-to-publish-yourwebsite.php
80. D
All other parts of the business. Operations managers must work closely with managers and employees in
all other parts of the business. This is because operations activities affect every other business function,
including marketing, finance, human resources, etc. Depending on the business, operations managers
may or may not work with managers in foreign markets. Operations managers do not work with
managers at competitive businesses.
SOURCE: OP:189
SOURCE: OP LAP 3—Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations)
81. B
To correct dangerous situations. It is important to report noncompliance with business health and safety
regulations in order to force businesses to correct dangerous situations. Certain governmental agencies
have developed health and safety regulations that businesses are expected to follow in order to provide
employees with a safe work environment. If businesses or employees do not comply with these
regulations, they should be reported so the necessary action can be taken to solve the problem and
make the workplace safe for employees. The goal is to correct dangerous situations; however,
businesses may be fined if they continue to ignore the regulations. During the process of investigating a
report of noncompliance, it may be necessary to obtain business records. The primary purpose of
reporting noncompliance is not to support whistleblowing policies. Whistleblowing policies and legislation
is to protect employees from employer retribution for reporting noncompliance.
SOURCE: OP:005
SOURCE: All About OSHA. (2014). What are my rights? Retrieved July 21, 2014, from
http://www.allaboutosha.com/employee-rights

Test 1102

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

28

82. D
They are exposed to different safety hazards. The types of safety hazards employees encounter depends
upon where people work and the type of work that they do. The number of hazards each faces depends
upon many factors, such as employees' observance of safety rules, management's attention to unsafe
conditions, and the business's enforcement of safety regulations.
SOURCE: OP:007
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2010). Marketing dynamics: Teacher's edition (2nd ed.)
[pp. 406-410]. Tinley Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Company, Inc.
83. C
Reporting noticeable hazards to management. One way to prevent hazardous conditions is to be aware
of the things that create these types of situations. For example, if an employee notices that an electrical
cord is frayed, s/he should notify the appropriate manager about the problem so the manager can take
steps to have the electrical cord repaired or replaced. If the electrical cord is not repaired or replaced,
someone could be shocked or a fire could start. All employees should perform their daily duties in a
timely manner regardless of hazards that they may encounter. Employees should replenish supplies
(e.g., paper in the copy machine) to be courteous of their coworkers. Toxic waste must be handled in
specific ways; therefore, employees should report this problem to management so it can be removed
safely.
SOURCE: OP:008
SOURCE: All About OSHA. (2014). What are my rights? Retrieved July 21, 2014, from
http://www.allaboutosha.com/employee-rights
84. D
Computer. A competitor who is willing to commit fraud can benefit by stealing information from a
business's files, such as ideas or designs for new products, promotional plans, and personal information
about executives. Pilferage is theft of small sums of money or inexpensive items. Robbery is theft that
involves the use of force, violence, or fear. Point-of-sale fraud attempts to cheat a business at the time of
purchase.
SOURCE: OP:013
SOURCE: Cornell University Law School. (n.d.). Computer and internet fraud. Retrieved July 21, 2014,
from http://www.law.cornell.edu/wex/computer_and_internet_fraud
85. D
Set the security alarm, locks the doors. Businesses install locks and security alarms to protect their
facilities from theft and burglary. Depending on the business's procedures, the last employee to leave for
the day should set the security alarm and lock the door. In some situations, the security alarm can be set
with a remote device after the employee leaves the building and locks the doors. Turning off the lights
and adjusting the thermostat will not protect the building from unlawful entry. Turning on a surveillance
camera may deter and identify thieves and burglars, but this will not prevent them from entering the
building.
SOURCE: OP:152
SOURCE: Kimiecik, R.C., & Thomas, C. (2006). Loss prevention in the retail business (pp. 48-51,
60-61). Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons.
86. C
Extension. A purchase order is the form that a business fills out to order goods and services. It is
considered a contract between the buyer and seller. As a contract, the purchase order contains
information, such as the buyer, seller, shipping address, types and quantities of items needed, prices,
etc. The extension indicates the total cost of each quantity of products the buyer is purchasing. The
extension amount is determined by multiplying the quantity purchased by the price per unit. For example,
if a purchase order indicates that a buyer wants 12 of product X, which costs $18 each, then the
extension price for Product X is $216. The product code is the vendor's identification number for the item.
The amount due includes all extended prices, tax, and delivery charges.
SOURCE: OP:016
SOURCE: Cash, R.P., Thomas, C., Wingate, J.W., & Friedlander, J.S. (2006). Management of retail
buying (pp. 210-211). Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons.

Test 1102

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

29

87. B
Estimating how long each step in production will take. Scheduling establishes the timetable to be
followed in production. Employees responsible for scheduling look at the number of steps in the
production process and estimate how long each step will take. Purchasing is the production activity that
obtains the needed resources. Routing is the production activity that establishes the path inputs take
from the time they are received by the business until they become outputs. Dispatching is issuing orders
for production to start.
SOURCE: OP:017
SOURCE: OP LAP 4—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production)
88. D
After assessing the situation. The situation will dictate how a person will present him/herself to others.
For example, a person attending a corporate board meeting might wear something different than
someone who is attending a rock concert. Once the situation has been assessed, the individual can
determine what to wear for the occasion. Showering and brushing teeth are practices of proper hygiene.
Some hygiene practices (e.g., showering), must be completed before dressing. A final check consists of
activities to make sure that personal appearance is in place. This is done after the person puts on the
clothing.
SOURCE: PD:002
SOURCE: PD LAP 5—Brand ME! (Personal Appearance)
89. B
Classifying. There are many ways to classify your activities. One way to classify or group activities would
be on the basis of frequency. Identifying activities involves listing them, prioritizing identifies the order in
which they should be done, and scheduling establishes a time plan for carrying out the activities.
SOURCE: PD:009
SOURCE: TaskManagementGuide.com. (2004-2014). What is task classification? Retrieved July 21,
2014, from http://www.taskmanagementguide.com/glossary/what-is-task-classification-.php
90. C
Finishing a six-week computer-software course. An objective is a goal, and a short-term goal is one that
takes less than a year to achieve. A six-week course is only a small part of a year. Becoming president of
a large corporation, becoming fluent in a foreign language, or paying off a twenty-five year mortgage are
long-term goals.
SOURCE: PD:018
SOURCE: PD LAP 16—Go For the Goal (Goal Setting)
91. A
Gives you a true picture of yourself. Self-understanding involves identifying both your strengths and your
weaknesses. When you recognize your strengths, it is easier to accept your weaknesses. This helps you
to like and to accept yourself, which are essential to raising your level of self-esteem. You may develop
personal interests or identify enjoyable social activities through self-understanding, but they may not
affect your level of self-esteem. Comparing your skills with the skills of others is not part of selfunderstanding.
SOURCE: PD:013
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (pp. 258-260). New
York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.

Test 1102

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

30

92. B
Company policy manual. Policies are the general rules or expectations to be followed by company
personnel. Often, businesses provide these rules in a publication, such as a manual. Issues such as
absences, vacations, dress codes, and the personal use of email or other office equipment are often
addressed in a written form. Although it is possible to obtain information about an employer's
expectations from the company website, interoffice correspondence, and coworkers, these options are
not always the most reliable or the most accurate. In addition, some companies do not have websites or
do not use them to post workplace policies.
SOURCE: PD:020
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (pp. 174-179). New
York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
93. C
Their personalities. Personality is an individual's distinctive qualities or traits and behavior. Each person
has a unique personality that will have an effect on the type of occupation that will be of interest to
him/her. For example, people who are outgoing and friendly will be interested in different careers than
those that will interest people who prefer to work alone. Individuals should consider their personality
when identifying possible occupations, rather than family history, parents' occupations, or friends'
opinions.
SOURCE: PD:023
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (pp. 37-38). New
York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
94. C
Talents and skills. Talents and skills are aptitudes that have an effect on the type of career that would be
most suitable for an individual. When considering employment opportunities, individuals should consider
their talents and skills because they are more likely to do well in careers that require their specific talents
and skills. Also, they usually will enjoy a career that is compatible with their talents and skills. Finding the
right job often satisfies wants and needs. Health and safety are not necessarily issues to consider
because most jobs in business are safe and do not adversely affect an individual's health. Individuals
usually do not consider their time and money when reviewing employment opportunities.
SOURCE: PD:025
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (pp. 36-37). New
York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
95. D
Small-business owners generally are not interested in expanding their businesses. Entrepreneurs are
individuals who expand their businesses in the form of products, personnel, and target markets.
Entrepreneurs can, but do not usually, buy existing businesses or franchise rights. However, for franchise
owners to be entrepreneurs, they must expand the business or create new businesses. Entrepreneurs
are usually very involved in the daily management of their businesses in the early stages of the ventures.
The U.S. Small Business Administration defines a small business as being one employing fewer than 500
people.
SOURCE: PD:066
SOURCE: PD LAP 4—Own Your Own (Career Opportunities in Entrepreneurship)

Test 1102

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

31

96. B
Avoid making any negative statements about the firm she left. In many cases, people leave jobs because
they can no longer tolerate the workplace. They may want to get away from a disagreeable coworker, a
domineering boss, or an unpleasant atmosphere. When these people apply for new jobs, they should not
describe problems or be totally honest and open about their previous situations. They should not be
dishonest, but they should give whatever positive reason applies to them. These might include the desire
for added responsibility, the hope of career advancement, or the wish to broaden horizons. Refusing to
discuss why you left a job would indicate that you were hiding something or had been fired for some
reason.
SOURCE: PD:027
SOURCE: Garcia, L. (2010, January 21). What to say to potential employers about choosing to leave
your last job. Retrieved July 21, 2014, from http://www.washingtonpost.com/wpdyn/content/article/2010/01/20/AR2010012002920.html
97. D
After every employment interview. Job applicants should send follow-up letters after every employment
interview in order to thank the interviewer for considering them. Sending follow-up letters is a common
courtesy to interviewers, but it also benefits the applicant. Even if the applicants are not hired at that time,
they have created a favorable impression in the event that they apply for other positions with that
business in the future. Applicants should always send follow-up letters, not only if they are interested in
the job, sure they will get the job, or convinced they are qualified.
SOURCE: PD:029
SOURCE: Bailey, L.J. (2007). Working (4th ed) [p. 71]. Mason, OH: South-Western Cengage Learning.
98. A
Targeted. Some jobs have certain requirements that applicants should respond to by preparing résumés
that provide specific information about the applicant's qualifications. For example, a person applying for a
sales position might mention experience in the restaurant business if the job was related to selling
supplies to restaurants. Writing the résumé to target specific types of jobs might give an applicant an
advantage over someone who provided a general résumé. A chronological résumé lists an applicant's
education and experience in order according to date, beginning with the most recent. A functional résumé
emphasizes major accomplishments according to importance rather than date. A generalized résumé
contains broad, general information rather than specific information. Generalized, chronological, and
functional résumés are frequently used résumé formats.
SOURCE: PD:031
SOURCE: Grayson, B. (2009, June 11). How to create a personalized résumé. Retrieved July 21, 2014,
from http://ezinearticles.com/?How-to-Create-a-Personalized-Resume&id=2463545
99. A
Martha Winters, Certified Public Accountant. Many professions require businesspeople to complete
continuing education courses to maintain their certifications and licensures. Because certified public
accountants work with financial data, they need to keep up with changes in regulations, including taxes.
Security advisors, accounts-receivable supervisors, and product-acquisition (purchasing) managers need
to keep up with changes in their fields; however, these positions do not usually require extensive
knowledge about changes in tax regulations.
SOURCE: PD:033
SOURCE: AGC of America. (2014). State-by-state listing of continuing education license requirements.
Retrieved July 21, 2014, from
http://www.agc.org/cs/continuing_education_license_requirements

Test 1102

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

32

100. C
Lack training in management techniques. Businesses often promote workers to supervisory jobs as a
reward for good performance. These new supervisors often need training to help them assume
supervisory responsibilities. First-level supervisors usually are familiar with the work because they have
done it themselves. Long-range planning involves planning for the entire company and is a responsibility
of top management, not the first-level supervisor. Wanting to move up to mid-level management is not a
problem but a legitimate career goal.
SOURCE: SM:001
SOURCE: SM LAP 3—Manage This! (Concept of Management)

