KEY
Test Number 1075

Business Administration
Core Exam
PBM - Principles of Business Management and Administration Event
PFN - Principles of Finance Event
PHT - Principles of Hospitality and Tourism Event
PMK - Principles of Marketing Event

CAUTION: Posting these materials on a website is a copyright violation unless
specifically authorized by MBAResearch.
This comprehensive exam was developed by the MBAResearch Center under contract with
DECA, Inc. Items have been randomly selected from the MBAResearch Test-Item Bank and
represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance Indicators for this exam are at the
prerequisite and career-sustaining levels. A descriptive test key, including question sources and
answer rationale, has been provided the state DECA advisor.

Copyright © 2013 by Marketing & Business Administration Research and
Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio (dba MBAResearch). Each individual test item contained
herein is the exclusive property of MBAResearch. Items are licensed only for use as configured
within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than as specifically
authorized in writing by MBAResearch is prohibited. Possession of this exam, without written
authorization, under any other circumstances is a copyright violation. Posting to inter- or
intranet sites is specifically forbidden unless written permission is obtained prior to posting.
Report violations to MBAResearch at 800.448.0398. Permission for reprinting is granted to state
DECA Associations authorized by DECA, Inc.

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

11

1. C
Sole proprietorship. A sole proprietorship is a form of business ownership in which the business is owned
by one person. This means that the owner is liable for the debts of the business. A corporation is owned
by its stockholders who share the responsibility for debts. A hybrid is a form of business ownership that
combines elements of corporations and either sole proprietorships or partnerships.
SOURCE: BL:003
SOURCE: BL LAP 1—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership)
2. C
What are the author's credentials? When identifying sources that provide relevant, valid written material,
the researcher evaluates a variety of factors, including the credibility of the author. A credible author
would have expertise and knowledge of the topic at hand. For example, an economics professor's article
about aggregate demand would tend to be more trustworthy than if the article was written by a
construction worker. Research reports should look at a topic from different viewpoints to ensure that it is
objective and free of bias. Whether the author can be quoted or if a bibliography is required are not
questions that address the reliability of the online information.
SOURCE: CO:054
SOURCE: Ormondroyd, J., Engle, M., & Cosgrove, T. (2011, April 5). Critically analyzing information
sources. Retrieved October 16, 2012, from
http://olinuris.library.cornell.edu/ref/research/skill26.htm
3. B
Table of contents. When trying to locate specific information from a lengthy document or a book, it often
saves time to first look at the table of contents. The table of contents is the portion of the text in which the
sections are listed with their page numbers for easy access. For example, if Brandon wants to obtain
information about industry trends, he can look at the table of contents, find the section that discusses
trends, and turn to the designated page of the document to read the desired information. The
bibliography contains the citations or sources used to construct the primary document. The appendices
are the segments added to the end of the primary document that include supporting information. Some
research reports contain an analysis of the document's contents or research. By looking at the table of
contents, the reader can determine if the desired information is included in the appendices or analysis
sections of the report.
SOURCE: CO:055
SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., & Thill, J.V. (2008). Business communication today (9th ed.) [pp. 460, 473].
Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.
4. C
Encouraging the speaker. In many cultures, a standing ovation is the ultimate show of support for a
speaker. It indicates the audience's respect for the speaker, and its desire to hear what the speaker has
to say. Because cheering provides positive feedback, the audience was not mocking or insulting the
speaker. Some cultures might view the audience's behavior as unruly or disrespectful; however, this
situation involves a school event, rather than a business event, so the audience isn't exhibiting
unprofessional behavior. Because Jacob has not started speaking, the audience is not actively listening
to what he is saying.
SOURCE: CO:082
SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., & Thill, J.V. (2008). Business communication today (9th ed.) [p. 101]. Upper
Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

12

5. D
Remember only so much information at one time. It is usually effective to verbally explain simple
directions or instructions. However, if the directions or instructions are more complicated, employees
usually are better able to follow written directions. The human brain is capable of remembering only so
much information at one time. If the verbal directions or instructions are long and complicated, many
employees will have difficulty remembering and following them. On the other hand, employees can refer
to written directions or instructions at any time if they forget a step or a process. Body language might
indicate if employees understand verbal directions or instructions. Employees usually are encouraged to
ask questions and provide feedback to clarify their understanding of directions or instructions.
SOURCE: CO:119
SOURCE: Hyden, J.S., Jordan, A.K., Steinauer, M.H., & Jones, M.J. (2006). Communicating for
success (3rd ed.) [pp. 113-116]. Mason, OH: Thomson South-Western.
6. B
Taking steps to minimize barriers. Active listening involves the use of nonverbal cues, paraphrasing,
questioning, and other techniques to let a speaker know that a message has been heard and
understood. Barriers such as telephone calls, loud music, and other noises can hinder the ability to focus
on what the speaker is saying. Taking steps to minimize barriers, such as closing a door, or letting a
phone call go to voice mail can decrease distractions and improve active listening. Active listeners wait
until a speaker has finished talking before asking questions. Interrupting the speaker is rude and
distracting. If the listener pays attention only to the points s/he wants to hear, the message may be
misunderstood.
SOURCE: CO:017
SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., & Thill, J.V. (2008). Business communication today (9th ed.) [pp. 52-54]. Upper
Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.
7. C
The exchange of ideas and information. Understanding must also exist before good communication is
possible. Signals, gestures, and printed materials may all be involved in communication.
SOURCE: CO:147
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2009). Marketing essentials (pp. 178-179). New
York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
8. B
I don't want to know you. There are several situations in which nonverbal communication is a better
indicator of a person's attitude than words. In this situation, Hank has made a polite verbal response, but
he has indicated by refusing to shake hands that he is not glad to meet Jeremy and does not really want
to know Jeremy. Even if they had met before, shaking hands would have been appropriate.
SOURCE: CO:059
SOURCE: Roberts, S.J. (2012). Fundamentals of business communication (pp. 30-32). Tinley Park, IL:
The Goodheart-Willcox Company, Inc.
9. D
Verbal. Individuals who have effective verbal skills have the ability to communicate with the use of words.
When explaining and defending their ideas objectively, individuals often are speaking to others and using
verbal communication. Having effective verbal skills enables individuals to speak in an organized manner
and present information in a logical order. They are able to speak clearly and provide supporting
information in a way that others will understand. Individuals do not necessarily need to have effective
technical, computer, or reading skills to be able to explain and defend their ideas objectively.
SOURCE: CO:061
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2006). Marketing essentials (pp. 184-187). New
York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

13

10. C
Varying tone. Employees who answer the telephone for a business should not speak in a monotone but
vary the tone of voice to reflect their interest and enthusiasm. Their voices should project sincerity, be
easy to understand, and have a friendly tone. Decisiveness and stern control might give a negative
impression.
SOURCE: CO:114
nd
SOURCE: Miculka, J. (2007). Speaking for success (2 ed.) [pp. 33-34]. Mason, OH: Thomson SouthWestern.
11. A
Listen carefully. Brooke must listen to the speaker so she can identify the key points that she wants to
write down. By noting the key points, Brooke will be able to refer the most important information when
she needs it later. Effective note-taking does not involve answering questions or expressing opinions.
Brooke might need her notes to develop a briefing, which is a summary of important information or
instructions.
SOURCE: CO:085
SOURCE: Student Planning Center. (n.d.). Effective note-taking. Retrieved October 16, 2012, from
http://slc.berkeley.edu/studystrategies/calren/notetaking1.html
12. B
Chronological. When describing a process or historical information, the writer may need to present the
facts in chronological order. By describing the steps or events in the sequence in which they occur, the
writer is presenting the information in a logical manner, which helps the readers understand the content.
When presenting information in an inverted order, the writer is describing the steps or processes in
reverse order. Concurrent means that activities are being performed at the same time.
SOURCE: CO:086
SOURCE: Malamed, C. (2012). Ways to organize information. Retrieved October 16, 2012, from
http://theelearningcoach.com/elearning_design/we-design-information-too/
13. A
Initialisms. An initialism is an abbreviation for a word—a modern form of shorthand that is commonly
used when writing informal messages, such as e-mail and text messages. Some businesses and
industries use initialisms as part of their organizational culture. Examples of initialisms include FYI (for
your information), 2L8 (too late), and LOL (laugh out loud). Because many people do not use or
understand initialisms, it is best not to use them when writing professional e-mails. A conjunction is a
word that connects two words or phrases (e.g., and, or, but). A modifier is an adjective or adverb. An
antonym is a word that means the opposite of another word (e.g., hot, cold).
SOURCE: CO:090
SOURCE: Leskiar, R.V., & Flatley, M.E. (2005). Basic business communication: Skills for empowering
the Internet generation (10th ed.) [p. 94]. Boston: McGraw-Hill/Irwin.
14. B
Clarity. Communication that is expressed clearly is described as having clarity. Caution is carefully
stating a point in order to avoid conflict or misunderstanding. Courtesy involves the use of tact and
consideration, while consensus is group opinion.
SOURCE: CO:133
SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., & Thill, J.V. (2008). Business communication today (9th ed.) [pp. 156-157].
Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.
15. A
Basic information. Businesses often write letters of inquiry to other businesses to request information and
literature or to order goods or services. These types of letters are routine and should contain only the
information the receiver needs in order to respond. It is not necessary to provide complex instructions or
technical explanations when writing routine letters. Letters of inquiry usually do not contain confidential
data because they are making requests rather than providing information.
SOURCE: CO:040
th
SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., & Thill, J.V. (2008). Business communication today (9 ed.) [pp. 225-226].
Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

14

16. A
The change may improve the business. Many companies encourage their employees to make
suggestions by providing suggestion boxes or by meeting regularly with employees and asking for their
suggestions. Not all change is good or motivational to workers. The employees who suggest changes
may not feel appreciated unless their changes are adopted.
SOURCE: CO:014
SOURCE: Heathfield, S. (2012). Harness the power of an employee suggestion program: Beyond the
suggestion box. Retrieved October 16, 2012, from
http://humanresources.about.com/od/quality/a/suggestion_pro.htm
17. B
Work in different cities. Telephone conferences are efficient ways to hold meetings for people who are in
different locations. Telephone conferences allow for immediate verbal communication. The job function of
telephone conference participants is not relevant. A video conference is an ideal way to have a meeting
that requires the use of visual aids for employees in remote locations. Text messaging is not as efficient
as telephone conferencing when multiple people are involved.
SOURCE: CO:092
SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., & Thill, J.V. (2008). Business communication today (9th ed.) [pp. 100-101].
Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.
18. A
They may be fired. More people lose their jobs because they can't get along with other people than for
any other reason. Establishing positive customer/client relations is very important to a business's
success. Employees who damage customer relations are not likely to be promoted or given awards.
Benefits cannot be taken away for misconduct.
SOURCE: CR:003
SOURCE: Bailey, L.J. (2007). Working (4th ed.) [pp. 96, 120-121]. Mason, OH: South-Western
Cengage Learning.
19. A
Use customer names in conversations. Customers enjoy hearing their names, and they feel important
when they realize employees have taken the time to learn them. You should maintain eye contact, not
stare. You should speak at a comfortable volume—not too loudly or too softly. You should try, whenever
possible, to resolve customers' problems without involving a supervisor.
SOURCE: CR:004
SOURCE: Solomon, M. (2011, April 13). Seven tips for building customer loyalty. Retrieved October 16,
2012, from http://www.entrepreneur.com/article/219475
20. C
To answer customers' inquiries. Customers expect a business's employees to be able to answer all of
their inquiries, especially those about products the customers want to buy. When employees can answer
customer inquiries, they help to create a good image for the business. Being knowledgeable about the
business and its products may enable employees to help each other, but that is not a primary reason for
them to be knowledgeable. Knowledgeable employees do not necessarily create publicity for the
business or reduce its promotional budget.
SOURCE: CR:006
SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., & Thill, J.V. (2008). Business communication today (9th ed.) [pp. 224-225].
Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.
21. B
Maintain eye contact. As an employee, you want to show customers that you want to listen. To do this,
you should maintain eye contact, look and act interested, avoid doing other things, concentrate on what
the customer is saying, and ask questions to clarify, when appropriate. You should strive to minimize
your talking while maximizing your active listening. Defending company policy before the customer has
finished speaking may make the customer angry. Also, you should not raise your voice; instead, talk
softly and slowly. Remember, customers take their cues from you.
SOURCE: CR:009
SOURCE: CR LAP 3—Making Mad Glad (Handling Difficult Customers)

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

15

22. C
Getting all the facts. Permit the customer to state the complaint without interruption. Restate the
complaint to ensure that there are no misunderstandings on either side. Only then are you prepared to
handle the problem. The person handling the complaint should not argue with the customer or try to
control the situation by keeping the upper hand because these actions can create or fuel a heated
situation. Company policy for handling complaints should be followed, not adjusted, since this ensures all
customers will be treated in the same manner.
SOURCE: CR:010
SOURCE: Odgers, P. (2004). The world of customer service (pp. 52-53). Mason, OH: South-Western.
23. D
Lose credibility. A brand promise is a business's agreement, spoken or unspoken, with customers that it
will consistently meet their expectations and deliver on its brand characteristics and values. An example
of a brand promise is a large company that pledges to deliver backorders within 24 hours. If the company
consistently fails to deliver backorders within 24 hours, customers are likely to become upset, which may
cause the company to lose its credibility. A business that loses credibility with its customers tends to lose
sales and market share because its customers will likely find new sources to fulfill their needs. Liability
refers to a debt, (e.g., money), that the company owes and does not always affect a company's ability to
fulfill its brand promise.
SOURCE: CR:001
SOURCE: Ubrander. (2006, August 31). How do I create a brand marketing plan? Retrieved October
16, 2012, from http://ubrander.wordpress.com/2006/08/31/how-do-i-create-a-brandmarketing-plan/
24. C
Human. Economic resources are those things that make it possible to produce and sell the goods and
services needed or wanted by consumers. The three major types of economic resources are natural
resources, human resources, and capital goods. Human resources are people who work to produce
goods and services. Some resources are scarce, or in short supply; valuable; or international, if they are
available everywhere.
SOURCE: EC:003
SOURCE: EC LAP 14—Be Resourceful (Economic Resources)
25. B
Level of productivity. The general economic growth of a country depends upon its level of productivity.
For example, the level of productivity in the United States has given the country a wealth of goods and
services which allows its citizens to reach a certain standard of living. Gross domestic product is the final,
total value of all goods and services produced within a country's geographic boundaries during a year's
time. GDP serves as a measure of economic growth.
SOURCE: EC:013
SOURCE: EC LAP 18—Make the Most of It (Productivity)
26. A
Product's utility. The basic demand for a product is not determined by its price but by its utility, or
usefulness, to a potential consumer. If consumers believe the business's new product will benefit them,
there is likely to be demand for it. The costs of production, government policies, and the number of
producers are factors that affect supply.
SOURCE: EC:005
SOURCE: EC LAP 11—It's the Law (Supply and Demand)
27. A
Buy less of the product. Likewise, if customers feel that the price is relatively low, they will buy more.
Customers affect prices of products through the use of their economic votes—by deciding to buy or not to
buy. Most retail prices are not negotiable or of interest to the Better Business Bureau, which tries to
protect consumers from fraud. Many customers will complain about prices, but few would take the time to
make a formal, written complaint.
SOURCE: EC:006
SOURCE: EC LAP 12—When More is Less (Price)

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

16

28. A
Human resources management. One of the major responsibilities of human resources management is
staffing the organization with qualified workers. Management is also responsible for organizing the staff,
which could be according to a chain of command that designates specific levels of authority. Line and
staff is a method of defining employees by their positions within the business. Line employees are
involved in producing the business's products, while staff employees are not involved in production but
provide support to that effort. Operations includes all of the activities involved in the day-to-day running of
the business.
SOURCE: EC:071
SOURCE: EC LAP 19—Strictly Business (Business Activities)
29. A
Risk. In a business venture, the outcome is uncertain, there is a chance of loss, and no one knows what
may happen. This is risk. In some cases, the risk can be reduced by planning certain kinds of protection,
such as insurance, but not all risk is insurable. The incentive for going into business is the belief that it
will succeed, and the reward will be profit.
SOURCE: EC:010
SOURCE: EC LAP 2—Risk Rewarded (Profit)
30. A
Pure. Pure risks are risks that carry with them the possibility of loss or no loss. Pure risks are generally
insurable. Speculative risks are risks that may result in a loss, no change, or a gain. Economic risks are
changes in the market that force prices to be lowered. Human risks are caused by human weakness and
unpredictability.
SOURCE: EC:011
SOURCE: EC LAP 3—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk)
31. D
Minimum-wage law. An example of a government fiscal control that regulates business practices is the
minimum-wage law. The minimum-wage law is a federal law that sets the lowest amount of hourly wages
that a business may pay its employees. Businesses are required to pay their employees no less than the
hourly rate set by government. Copyright laws protect books and other artistic works and give their
creators sole rights to them for 28 years. Zoning laws protect the value of business property. A trademark
is a symbol, design, or word used by a producer to identify a good or service, and it can be registered
with the government to prevent use by others.
SOURCE: EC:008
SOURCE: EC LAP 16—Regulate and Protect (Government and Business)
32. C
Economizing. Economizing is the process of deciding how scarce resources will be used or which goods
and services will be purchased or provided so that the most satisfaction can be obtained. All businesses
try to economize in order to obtain the greatest satisfaction from their limited resources. Controlling is the
management function that monitors the work effort. Organizing is the management function of setting up
the way the business's work will be done. Directing is the management function of providing guidance to
workers and work projects.
SOURCE: EC:001
SOURCE: EC LAP 6—Are You Satisfied? (Economic Activities)
33. B
Motivated. Achievement-oriented, emotionally intelligent people are motivated. They have a strong desire
to succeed. They often set high standards for themselves so that whatever they do is evaluated in terms
of their goals. Achievement-oriented, emotionally intelligent people are not necessarily prosperous or
impatient. Transparent people are who they say they are and have nothing to hide.
SOURCE: EI:001
SOURCE: EI LAP 6—EQ and You (Emotional Intelligence)

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

17

34. A
Raise. Any activity or achievement that makes you feel good about yourself will boost your self-esteem.
Doing things you don't feel good about could hinder, lower, or damage your self-esteem.
SOURCE: EI:016
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (p. 197). New York:
Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
35. C
Self-control. By not saying anything to Anna and concentrating on his duties, Alex is demonstrating selfcontrol. He is restraining his feelings, words, and actions toward Anna's complaining. Assertiveness is
the ability to express yourself; communicate your point of view; and stand up for your rights, principles,
and beliefs, while respecting authority and being tactful. Interest and enthusiasm is showing interest in
those around you, the goods/services that you market, and in your business in general. Adaptability is
flexibility, the ability to adjust to changing conditions.
SOURCE: EI:018
SOURCE: EI LAP 9—You've Got Personality (Personality Traits in Business)
36. B
Self-confidence. Self-confidence is a positive belief in your own talents, skills, and objectives. Selfconfident people adhere to their personal code of ethics, even when others do not agree with or are
critical of those opinions, decisions, or behaviors. Creative thinking involves the use of the creativethinking process to generate unique ideas, approaches, or solutions. Social responsibility is the duty of
business to contribute to the well-being of society. Optimism is a positive attitude.
SOURCE: EI:023
SOURCE: Mind Tools. (1996-2012). Building self-confidence. Retrieved October 16, 2012, from
http://www.mindtools.com/selfconf.html
37. C
Lose trust in yourself. If you "go along with the crowd" instead of standing up for what you believe in, you
are likely to lose trust in yourself. Responsible behavior means always being true to what you believe is
right. When you waver on your own values, you lose trust in and credibility with both yourself and others.
When you go along with what others want to do, you are less likely to do the right thing or get what you
want and need.
SOURCE: EI:021
SOURCE: EI LAP 21—Make the Honor Role (Acting Responsibly)
38. D
Taking a day of sick leave to play golf. Employees usually are allowed a certain number of sick days to
be used in the event of health or medical problems. Employers expect employees to use sick days for
legitimate reasons. It is considered unethical for an employee to use a sick day for recreational activities
or vacation. Clocking out at the end of the day is standard practice in many businesses. Employees may
schedule vacation for the length of time they are entitled, which may be two weeks. Many businesses
allow employees to work four 10-hour days, which amounts to a 40-hour week.
SOURCE: EI:004
SOURCE: EI LAP 4—Work Right (Ethical Work Habits)
39. B
Believe that problems can be overcome. People who take a positive attitude handle life's problems better
than others because they believe problems are temporary aggravations that can be endured or
overcome. Setting reasonable goals is not part of handling problems. Positive people are more likely to
be tolerant than others, and they expect life to be good rather than full of problems.
SOURCE: EI:019
SOURCE: EI LAP 3—Opt for Optimism (Positive Attitude)

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

18

40. B
Self-control. Self-control enables individuals to manage their lives by using discipline and will power.
Perseverance is steadfastness, which is a desirable personal trait. Initiative is the willingness to take
action without waiting to be told to do so. Empathy is the ability to put yourself in another person's place.
SOURCE: EI:025
SOURCE: EI LAP 14—Control Yourself! (Self-Control)
41. D
Maintain an open attitude. Because everyone receives both positive and negative feedback, it is
important to learn how to handle both types of it. To handle criticism in an effective and appropriate
manner, a person must be open to others' opinions and points of view. It is often a good idea for a person
to ask a neutral third party for advice after s/he considers the criticism but disagrees with it. In addition, a
person should ask specific questions about the criticism and implement the source's suggestions after
the source is finished speaking.
SOURCE: EI:003
SOURCE: EI LAP 15—Grin and Bear It (Using Feedback for Personal Growth)
42. C
Inevitable. Change involves altering the form, nature, content, or future course of something. Change is
constant and unavoidable. Although many people seem to resist change, it is often beneficial. Many
changes are announced before they actually occur so that people can be prepared for them. For
example, a company informs employees that it will install a new computer system July 1, or the
government says postage rates will increase in two months.
SOURCE: EI:026
SOURCE: Lussier, R.N., & Achua, C.F. (2010). Leadership: Theory, application, & skill development
th
(4 ed.) [pp. 434-435]. Mason, OH: South-Western Cengage Learning.
43. A
Respecting the privacy. When employees respect the privacy of others in the workplace, they are more
likely to gain the trust and respect of their coworkers and managers. Respecting coworkers' privacy
means that an employee does not read correspondence that is not addressed to him/her. In addition, the
employee does not listen to others' private conversations or go through their personal belongings. In the
example, Amanda waited until her coworker Jeff returned from lunch to obtain a file that she needed.
Because she did not go through Jeff's workspace, she was respecting rather than violating his privacy.
The example does not indicate that Amanda's intention was to correct Jeff's work or to reinforce his
efforts—she simply needed to review information in the file.
SOURCE: EI:029
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (p. 267). New York:
Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
44. B
Sensitivity. Being sensitive to others' feelings helps us to know what those feelings are, to understand
them, and to put ourselves in that person's place. If we are indifferent, wary, or treat others with formality,
we cannot be empathetic.
SOURCE: EI:030
SOURCE: EI LAP 12—Have a Heart (Showing Empathy for Others)
45. D
You did a wonderful job decorating that cake.” “You did a wonderful job decorating that cake” is an
example of sensitive communication. Sensitive communication means putting “you” before “I.” The other
sentences focus on “I” or “we” rather than “you.”
SOURCE: EI:007
SOURCE: QS LAP 25—More Than Just Talk

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

19

46. C
Preventing others from taking advantage of her. Assertive people don't take advantage of others or allow
others to take advantage of them. They don't refrain from expressing their thoughts and ideas. They do
not say "no" to all requests and do not feel guilty about saying "no" when necessary. They also ask for
help when it is needed.
SOURCE: EI:008
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (pp. 200-201). New
York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
47. A
You. "You" statements tend to place blame and fault on the other party. As a result, the other person
tends to become defensive and angry. Then, conflict resolution becomes more difficult. "I" statements are
used to convey beliefs, perceptions, and feelings, and are preferred because they don't blame or fault the
other party. "Me" and "it" are not terms that are widely used to describe the types of sentences that
people use during the conflict resolution process.
SOURCE: EI:015
SOURCE: EI LAP 7—Stop the Madness (Conflict Resolution in Business)
48. B
Good visions have permanent results. A vision is a desire for the future that is achieved over time with
determination and hard work. Good visions create positive results and may involve the input of many
people over a long period of time. Visions are not based on mission statements, nor do they start out with
specific goals. Visions are timeless rather than time bound.
SOURCE: EI:063
SOURCE: QS LAP 11—Picture This!
49. C
Flexibility. Flexibility is a coaching characteristic that means you can accept change. If something isn't
working, you adapt. Enthusiasm means that you help your coachee to be excited about the work s/he is
doing. Approachability means that you have the type of attitude and demeanor that says, “You can
always talk to me. I'm here to help.” Dependability means being the type of person others can count on.
SOURCE: EI:041
SOURCE: QS LAP 7—Bring Out the Best
50. D
Coworkers with empathy are better able to understand others. Empathy is the ability to put yourself in
another person's place. When you can "walk in someone else's shoes," even though you have not had
the same experiences, you are better able to understand and to get along with that person. Empathy
cannot prevent disagreements, help workers to understand legal guidelines, or enable them to learn a job
quickly.
SOURCE: EI:036
SOURCE: EI LAP 20—Fair and Square (Treat Others Fairly at Work)
51. B
Businesses pay 0.75% of each debit card sale to the bank that handles the billing. Although businesses
pay a percentage of their credit sales to the bank that handles the credit card transactions, they pay a flat
fee for each debit card transaction, regardless of the amount of the sale. Therefore, debit card
transactions usually cost business less than credit card charges do. Because a business is informed
during the debit card transaction if the customer has insufficient funds, there is no risk of the business not
getting paid. It is easier for customers to get debit cards than credit cards, and businesses get their
money sooner when customers use debit cards instead of checks.
SOURCE: FI:058
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2006). Marketing essentials (pp. 334-337). New
York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

20

52. D
Dividends. A dividend is a sum of money that a corporation pays to a stockholder as earnings on an
investment. The corporation usually pays dividends by check to stockholders on a quarterly basis. The
stockholder can deposit the dividend check into a savings or checking account or convert it to cash.
Credit, deposits, and cash are not forms of income that are earned by owning stock.
SOURCE: FI:061
SOURCE: Kapoor, J.R., Dlabay, L.R., & Hughes, R.J. (2005). Personal finance (pp. 274-275). New
York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
53. A
The time value of money. Kimberly understands that the $1,000 available to her now is worth more than
the same $1,000 two years from now. By placing the $1,000 in a savings account now, she can earn
interest on that $1,000. So, in two years, she will have more than $1,000 to put toward her college
expenses. The absolute advantage is the advantage achieved when a nation can produce a good or
service for less than another nation. Capital gains are earnings from the appreciation of a stock
investment, and Kimberly is not purchasing stock with the money. The foreign exchange rate is the value
of a currency in relation to another currency at a given time.
SOURCE: FI:062
SOURCE: Kapoor, J.R., Dlabay, L.R., & Hughes, R.J. (2009). Personal finance (9th ed.)
[pp. 15-19, 30-36]. New York: McGraw-Hill Irwin.
54. B
Installment credit account. This type of credit is used to purchase large, expensive items such as
furniture or appliances. Customers know exactly how much is due each month and how long they will be
making payments. Revolving credit usually has a credit limit, and there is no set time for payment in full.
Secured loans are funds obtained when the borrower pledges to the lender some valuable possession,
such as real estate, stocks and bonds, machinery, or the cash value of a life insurance policy. Unsecured
loans are funds obtained by simply signing a promissory note to repay the loan. These loans are usually
for a short period of time.
SOURCE: FI:002
SOURCE: FI LAP 2—Give Credit Where Credit is Due (Credit and Its Importance)
55. D
Realize what it takes to get the things you really want. Financial planning is a good way to realize what it
takes to get the things you really want. It is not a method for stopping all impulsive purchases nor is it a
way to achieve your professional goals. And, even the best financial planning can't guarantee you'll retire
with a substantial amount of money in the bank.
SOURCE: FI:065
SOURCE: QS LAP 31—Set Yourself Up (Setting Financial Goals)
56. C
Earnings. Her employer will have kept track of her earnings and withheld the correct amount from each
paycheck. She will not pay a tax on property because she does not own land or real estate. She has not
inherited any money from a relative, or received a large gift of money so she will not have to pay taxes on
wealth. She pays taxes on purchases when she makes those purchases, not when she prepares her
income taxes.
SOURCE: FI:067
SOURCE: Kapoor, J.R., Dlabay, L.R., & Hughes, R.J. (2005). Personal finance (pp. 381-382). New
York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

21

57. D
Gross pay. Gross pay is the total income earned for the pay period before income taxes and other
deductions are subtracted from the wages. Net pay is the amount of money that the worker receives after
the taxes and other deductions have been subtracted from his/her wages. Tax-exempt income includes
revenues that are not taxed, such as tax refunds, veteran's benefits, and welfare benefits. Overtime
income is the amount of money that an hourly worker earns for working more hours than s/he is normally
scheduled to work.
SOURCE: FI:068
SOURCE: Kapoor, J.R., Dlabay, L.R., Hughes, R.J., & Hoyt, W.B. (2005). Business and personal
finance (pp. 611, 613). New York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
58. A
The spelled out check amount is used if the numbers are unclear. The spelled out check amount is relied
on when the bank or check recipient cannot easily decipher the numbers recorded on the check. The
“Pay to the order of” line identifies who can cash the check. The bank's routing number appears in the
MICR line at the bottom of your check. The memo line is used to designate the check's purpose.
SOURCE: FI:560
SOURCE: The Beehive. (2001-2011). How to write a check. Retrieved January 20, 2011, from
http://www.thebeehive.org/money/spend-it/how-write-check
59. B
Cash; full. Paying the statement in full will assure that she does not have to pay extra interest on the
balance, and will help improve her credit history. Paying in cash is better for her credit history's health
than paying with another card, because eventually she will have to pay the money owed on the other
card. Paying for one card with another can lead to a downward spiral of credit card debt.
SOURCE: FI:071
SOURCE: Woolsey, B. (2005, July 12). Staying out of trouble with credit cards. Retrieved August 18,
2010, from http://www.creditcards.com/credit-card-news/credit-card-tips-for-good-credit1267.php
60. D
Cancel all of his credit and debit cards. Identity theft occurs when somebody uses another individual's
name and personal information (e.g. credit cards) for fraudulent purposes. The first thing Cameron
should do when he realizes he has lost his wallet is to cancel his credit cards. By canceling the credit
cards, Cameron will protect himself in the event that someone finds his wallet and attempts to use the
credit cards. Financial institutions and businesses (e.g., retailers) issue credit cards, not government
agencies. Cameron should contact the proper law enforcement authorities (e.g., police) if he thinks his
wallet is stolen. He can report a lost wallet, and he can also change the passwords for his online banking
accounts. However, the first thing he should do is to cancel his credit and debit cards.
SOURCE: FI:073
SOURCE: Federal Trade Commission. (n.d.). DETER: Minimize your risk. Retrieved October 16, 2012,
from http://www.ftc.gov/bcp/edu/microsites/idtheft/consumers/deter.html
61. D
Verify credentials. When selecting a financial-services provider, it is important to make sure that the
provider is qualified. One way to do this is to verify the provider's credentials. In many areas, financialservices providers must pass an exam or obtain a license. These credentials verify that the provider has
the necessary training and background to give financial advice, help develop financial plans, and make
investments. Individuals organize their records before meeting with a financial-services provider. Tax
forms are completed in accordance to government regulations. Planning an investment takes place after
selecting a qualified provider.
SOURCE: FI:076
SOURCE: Kapoor, J.R., Dlabay, L.R., Hughes, R.J., & Hoyt, W.B. (2005). Business and personal
finance (pp. 260-261). New York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

22

62. A
Municipal bond. Municipal bonds are lending investments offered by municipalities, not banks. Savings
accounts, money market accounts, and certificates of deposit are all offered by banks.
SOURCE: FI:077
SOURCE: QS LAP 32—Risky Business
63. B
Balance sheet. A balance sheet is a financial statement that captures the financial condition of the
business at that particular moment. This includes the liabilities, or debts, that the business owes. The
bank found that the owner's current liabilities were too high to be extended. Budgets show estimated
income and expenses but not what is currently owed. Income statements would include the income and
expenses for a specific period of time but would not include outstanding debts.
SOURCE: FI:085
SOURCE: FI LAP 5—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting)
64. C
Going concern. Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) are universal rules that accountants
use when they prepare and summarize financial reports. Presenting financial information in a consistent
format helps accounting professionals understand financial information across many types of businesses
and industries. When setting up an accounting system, accountants consider three assumptions—going
concern, business entity, and accounting period. Going concern assumes that the business will go on
forever (indefinitely). Business entity is the assumption that the owner(s) and the business are
independent units. The third assumption is the accounting period, which indicates that each business is
divided into specific increments of time for the purpose of reporting financial data (e.g., month, quarter,
annual). Tangible existence and open reality are fictitious terms.
SOURCE: FI:086
SOURCE: Guerrieri, D.J., Haber, F.B., Hoyt, W.B., & Turner, R.E. (2004). Accounting: Real-world
applications & connections (First-year course) [pp. 32-34]. New York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
65. B
Working capital management. A company's current balance of assets and liabilities falls under the focus
of working capital management. Working capital management involves short-term decisions about cash
flow. Return on capital is a component of working capital management that refers to how well a business
is generating cash flow in relation to its invested capital. Capital investment decisions are made for the
long-term and do not relate to current assets and liabilities. The cash conversion cycle is a component of
working capital management that refers to how long a business's money is "tied up" between purchasing
raw materials and receiving cash from sales.
SOURCE: FI:354
SOURCE: FI LAP 7—Money Matters (Role of Finance)
66. D
Job orientation. Many organizations, particularly larger ones, provide job orientation for all employees to
help them learn their new jobs quickly. An exit interview is a discussion with an employee who is leaving
the company. An attitude survey assesses the way employees think or feel about their work environment.
A performance evaluation rates an employee's job performance so that s/he knows what is satisfactory
and what, if anything, needs improvement.
SOURCE: HR:360
SOURCE: Noe, R.A., Hollenbeck, J.R., Gerhart, B., & Wright, P.M. (2010). Human resource
management: Gaining a competitive advantage (7th ed.) [pp. 333-335]. New York: McGrawHill/Irwin.
67. C
Hopefulness. Most things can be marketed—including goods (durable and nondurable), services,
organizations, places, ideas, and people. Included are holidays, health, and Hawaii. However, since
hopefulness is an optimistic state of mind, it is not likely that it can be marketed.
SOURCE: MK:001
SOURCE: MK LAP 4—Have It Your Way! (Nature of Marketing)

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

23

68. D
Specific problems. Businesses need a variety of information to be able to make decisions and solve
problems. The type of information they need depends on the business and the specific problem. For
example, a retail business might need information about different suppliers because the current supplier
is not performing adequately and the business wants to find a replacement. Businesses do not assess
their information needs to deal with job applicants, personal relationships, or ethical issues.
SOURCE: NF:077
SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., Thill, J.V., & Mescon, M.H. (2007). Excellence in business (3rd ed.)
[pp. 132-135]. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.
69. C
An article written by a Harvard economics professor that was published in a business magazine last
month. When evaluating the quality of online information, it is important to consider factors such as the
source type, the author's expertise, and the publication date. The Harvard professor has extensive
knowledge about the topic of economics. The article was published last month, so it likely reflects current
events and is up-to-date. A college student and a 16-year-old entrepreneur do not have the level of
expertise that the professor has. The 2009 report and a 2005 textbook are not as up-to-date as an article
written last month.
SOURCE: NF:079
SOURCE: eHow.com. (1999-2012). How to determine the validity of a research article. Retrieved
October 16, 2012, from http://www.ehow.com/how_5035804_determine-validity-researcharticle.html
70. A
Constantly changing. Information management can be a challenge because the business world is
constantly changing. Companies can't sit back and assume their current programs will continue to fit the
bill. They must stay alert to information management needs and trends and be willing to adjust
accordingly. Business technology is always changing and, more and more, companies' information is
electronic rather than paper. Employees often suffer from too much information, known as information
overload.
SOURCE: NF:110
SOURCE: NF LAP 3—In the Know (Nature of Information Management)
71. D
The weather. Though humans can study the weather to understand and prepare for it better, it is not
considered a technological innovation, and it was not invented by humans. The wheel, the Internet, and
the cell phone are all considered technological innovations invented and improved upon by humans.
SOURCE: NF:003
SOURCE: NF LAP 4—TECH-tastic (Technology's Impact on Business)
72. C
E-business. E-business goes beyond buying and selling electronically as referred to in e-commerce. It
also includes providing service to customers and suppliers and enabling interactive communication such
as teleconferencing. URLs are Internet addresses, while web sites are collections of web pages.
SOURCE: NF:086
SOURCE: Jensen, B. (n.d.). Jensen's technology glossary. Retrieved October 16, 2012, from
http://www.translationdirectory.com/glossaries/glossary017_e.htm

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

24

73. C
Can be forwarded to others. When employees write e-mail messages to coworkers or customers, the
recipients of the messages can forward them to others without the sender's knowledge or permission.
Therefore, employees should be cautious about the content of e-mail messages because they have no
control over what the recipients do with the e-mails. It is best not to include personal or sensitive
information in e-mails, particularly if the sender wants the information to remain private. E-mail messages
are not private conversations, do not take a long time to prepare, and are not considered formal
correspondence.
SOURCE: NF:004
SOURCE: About.com. (n.d.). How to forward e-mails. Retrieved October 16, 2012, from
http://email.about.com/od/howtoforwardemails/How_to_Forward_Emails.htm
74. C
Hyperlink. Many pages on the World Wide Web are connected by hyperlinks. A business's home page
may include hyperlinks that users can click on to jump to other pages on the business's web site. Some
businesses include hyperlinks from their web sites to other related sites. For example, a business
searching government agencies might be able to jump from the FBI's site to the CIA's site by clicking on
the hyperlink for that agency. An attachment is an electronic file attached to an e-mail message. A
banner is a type of online ad that appears at the side or bottom of the web page. A symbol is a
representation of something.
SOURCE: NF:006
SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., & Thill, J.V. (2008). Business communication today (9th ed.) [pp. 164, 405].
Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.
75. A
Cut, paste. Business employees use word-processing software programs to create text documents, such
as letters, memos, and reports. Most word-processing programs have options that allow the user to move
text from one part of the document to another. To move text, the user highlights the text, touches the
"cut" button, which removes the text from its current position. The user moves the curser to the new
location and touches the "paste" button, which places the text in the new location. This simple process
saves time for business employees because they do not need to delete and retype the information. The
"copy" button duplicates the text but does not remove it from its current location. A "find and replace"
function helps the user to electronically locate and change words within the document.
SOURCE: NF:007
SOURCE: Lesikar, R.V., & Flatley, M.E. (2005). Basic business communication: Skills for empowering
th
the Internet generation (10 ed.) [p. 503]. Boston: McGraw-Hill/Irwin.
76. C
Transition. Presentation-software applications provide computer users with the option to add different
sound and visual effects when moving from slide to slide. This option is called a transition. The transition
makes the presentation more interesting and visually appealing. The ability to add visual and sound
effects between presentation-software slides is not referred to as a feed, jump, or lead.
SOURCE: NF:008
SOURCE: eHow.com. (n.d.). How to create transition effects in PowerPoint. Retrieved October 16,
2012, from http://www.ehow.com/how_12105_create-transition-effects.html
77. A
Database. Database software programs are used to collect, sort, organize, and analyze information
quickly. A cruise line would use database software to maintain a list of recent passengers and their cabin
preferences. The cruise line could sort the information according to various factors, such as the
passengers' addresses, and develop mailing lists to promote upcoming cruises. Businesses use
presentation software to develop visual aids to supplement an oral presentation. Communication
software programs are used to send information from one computer to another. Word-processing
software programs are used for writing and editing documents.
SOURCE: NF:009
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2009). Marketing essentials (p. 199). Woodland
Hills, CA: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

25

78. D
$2,578.70. Spreadsheet software programs are designed to organize, calculate, and analyze
mathematical or numerical information. Businesses often use spreadsheet software to calculate
commissions or to analyze the effect that raising the commission rate would have on operating expenses.
In this example, the business is considering raising the rate by 1%. Calculating how much more the
business will owe the salespeople is a simple process using spreadsheet programs because all the
business needs to do is change the commission rate and the program will automatically calculate the
new amount of commission due. To calculate the difference, first add the total sales and multiply by 1%
to determine the increase ($62,500 + $66,350 + $65,100 + $63,920 = $257,870; $257,870 X 1% or .01 =
$2,578.70).
SOURCE: NF:010
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2009). Marketing essentials (p. 199). Woodland
Hills, CA: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
79. D
An overview of the content that is visually interesting. The first thing a reader should see on a web page
is the basic, rather than detailed, information about the web-page sponsor. Then, readers should be able
to click on links to connect them to more detailed information or items of interest. To capture the reader's
attention, the page should be visually interesting, which includes the appropriate use of color and smaller
graphics. Since larger graphics tend to take longer to appear on the computer screen, some individuals
might become frustrated because they must wait. Oftentimes, people will not go beyond the initial screen
if they feel it takes too long. Therefore, it is preferable to use smaller graphics. Typefaces should be
limited since too many of them can be visually distracting.
SOURCE: NF:042
SOURCE: Miles, J.E., & Dolce, C. (2006). E-Commerce (pp. 214-218). New York: Glencoe/McGrawHill.
80. D
Function effectively. Operations are the day-to-day activities required for continued business functioning.
Operations make sure that there are materials and supplies available so employees can do their jobs.
Operations make sure the physical facility is in good condition so work can be performed efficiently.
Effective operations are important because the activities help to increase productivity and make the
business successful. Operations are not involved in making sure that the business is able to motivate
employees, sell quickly, or inventory products.
SOURCE: OP:189
SOURCE: OP LAP 3—Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations)
81. D
Whistleblowing. A whistleblower is a person who reveals any wrongdoings or malpractices that are taking
place within an organization. Jane attempted to resolve a potential problem internally with her manager,
but needed to go outside her organization to get the problem resolved. Countries, such as the U.S. and
Canada, have whistleblower laws that protect whistleblowers from retaliation. Attempting to ensure the
safety of others is not being a tattle tale—it is being a responsible adult. Because it can be interpreted by
some people as tattling, whistleblower laws may be used to protect the person who reports
noncompliance. Jane is attempting to prevent an accident; one has not occurred, yet. Security
procedures are set in place by a company's management. Jane is reporting noncompliance that may
result in a company's deciding to establish new security procedures.
SOURCE: OP:005
SOURCE: Bainbridge, Ross. (2007, January 8). Whistleblower definition. Retrieved October 16, 2012,
from http://ezinearticles.com/?Whistleblower-Definition&id=410263

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

26

82. C
Business risk. The firm's business risk increased because of the chance of accident or injury, which could
result in lawsuits, medical expenses, and other losses. Economic risks are risks caused by changes in
the market that force a lowering of prices, a change of product, or failure of businesses. Increased sales
and employment would be positive outcomes of a business's policy.
SOURCE: OP:007
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2006). Marketing dynamics (pp. 399-402). Tinley Park,
IL: Goodheart-Willcox.
83. A
Determine the severity of the injury. Determining the severity of the injury helps the employee to
determine what should be done next. If the injury is severe or life threatening, then an ambulance should
be called. Calling an ambulance or notifying a supervisor should not be done until after the severity of the
injury is determined. The severity of the accident will indicate whether to administer first aid. Filing a
report would generally be the last aspect of handling an accident.
SOURCE: OP:009
SOURCE: Spears, M.C., & Gregoire, M.B. (2004). Foodservice organizations: A managerial and
systems approach (5th ed.) [pp. 413-414]. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall.
84. D
The risk of theft. Security methods and devices protect the physical building as well as the equipment,
fixtures, records, and goods stored inside. If used properly, they protect the business from the risk of theft
of money and other valuables and even loss of life. Security precautions cannot protect a business from
natural disasters, such as floods and lightning. Economic depressions are long periods of decline in the
gross national product characterized by a period of severely lowered production, curtailed purchasing of
goods and services, and high unemployment. Foreclosure is a legal procedure to sell the assets of a
business that has not paid its mortgage.
SOURCE: OP:013
SOURCE: Berman, B., & Evans, J.R. (2004). Retail management: A strategic approach (9th ed.)
[pp. 383-385]. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall.
85. D
The last employee to leave a business facility after business hours fails to set the security alarm. To
protect their personal well-being, the well-being of coworkers and customers, and the business's
property, employees need to follow their employers' security procedures. If the employee is the last
person to leave the business facility, s/he needs to ensure that the doors are locked and the security
alarm is set. If the security alarm is not set, it increases the risk of theft because it makes it easier for a
thief to break into the building to steal money, inventory, or equipment. Installing electronic locks and
security windows, updating antivirus software, and shredding unneeded documents are activities that
reduce the risk of security breaches.
SOURCE: OP:152
SOURCE: Kimiecik, R.C., & Thomas, C. (2006). Loss prevention in the retail business
(pp. 48-51, 60-61). Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons.
86. C
Informal. The informal buying method is often effective for small food markets and usually involves calling
several vendors to obtain prices. Then, the market calls the lowest bidder to place an order. This is a
simple process that reduces the need for a lot of paperwork. Also, orders can be placed quickly. Formal
buying methods require more paperwork and usually written quotes rather than verbal quotes over the
phone. Competitive-bid, negotiated, and standing-order are formal buying methods that take more time
than informal methods.
SOURCE: OP:016
SOURCE: Cash, R.P., Thomas, C., Wingate, J.W., & Friedlander, J.S. (2006). Management of retail
buying (pp. 205-213). Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons.

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

27

87. C
Bought by consumers. The purpose of the production process is to change resources into useful
products that meet consumers' needs. Many raw materials are not useful in their original form but are
transformed through the production process into useful items that consumers want to buy. Storing,
shipping, and packing are activities that take place after the production process.
SOURCE: OP:017
SOURCE: OP LAP 4—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production)
88. A
Routine. Routine activities are those which are done on a daily or regular basis. Occasional activities
happen at irregular or infrequent intervals, and they may be unscheduled or unplanned. An efficient
activity is one that is carried out in the most effective manner.
SOURCE: PD:009
SOURCE: Wallace, H.R., & Masters, L.A. (2006). Personal development for life & work (9th ed.)
[p. 300]. Mason, OH: South-Western Cengage Learning.
89. C
Realistic. Realistic goals are those that are possible to achieve with a reasonable amount of effort. Goals
should be as specific as possible, since vague, general goals may not be motivational. The goal must be
personal in order to be meaningful to the individual. It can be either short term or long term.
SOURCE: PD:018
SOURCE: PD LAP 16—Go For the Goal (Goal Setting)
90. D
Interests. Interests are the things about which a person is curious or concerned. They can cover a broad
range of subjects, both mental and physical. Aptitudes are a person's abilities to do certain kinds of
things. There is no indication in this situation that Chris has the abilities, skills, or aptitudes to participate
in space exploration.
SOURCE: PD:013
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (pp. 258-260). New
York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
91. B
Use and handle the equipment with care. A business expects its employees to carefully handle and use
the business's office equipment. Equipment such as photocopiers, fax machines, and computers are
expensive investments for the business and can cost a lot of money to maintain and fix. Therefore, the
business expects its employees to be careful with the equipment to reduce the risk of equipment
breakdowns. Business managers, rather than employees, develop procedures for equipment handling.
For example, a business might delegate responsibility to the office manager to contact service vendors
when equipment needs to be fixed or maintained. It is not always necessary to call service people when
equipment is not working correctly, such as a paper jam in a photocopier, which can usually be removed
carefully by an employee. Employees should receive training to operate basic office equipment so they
do not need to interrupt coworkers to ask them to perform simple tasks (e.g., fax documents) that they
can easily do themselves.
SOURCE: PD:020
SOURCE: Bailey, L.J. (2007). Working (4th ed.) [p. 33]. Mason, OH: South-Western Cengage Learning.
92. B
Trade associations. A trade association is a group of persons in the same industry who form a society to
solve their common problems. Trade associations provide in-depth information about various jobs in their
industries. This information includes skills, training, and education necessary to perform particular jobs in
specific industries. Much of this information is often found on a trade association's web site. The web site
might also provide links to other resources that have additional information about the field or industry.
Local newspapers, college recruiters, and marketing consultants might be able to provide general career
information about a specific field or topic of interest.
SOURCE: PD:022
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (p. 53). New York:
Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

28

93. A
Take ability assessment tests. Ability assessment tests help individuals to identify their skills and their
capacity to perform certain tasks. These tests will help them to decide what type of career would be of
interest to them based on their skills. For example, a person with good communication skills might be
interested in a career in sales or marketing. People cannot identify tentative career interests by finding
out which majors are popular or by locating high-income occupations. Counselors may be able to
suggest specific occupations based on the results of an ability assessment test.
SOURCE: PD:023
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (p. 40). New York:
Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
94. D
Risk taking. Risk taking refers to the understanding and acceptance of not knowing the outcome of one's
actions or circumstances. Flexibility refers to the ability to adapt to changes as they occur. Self-discipline
is the ability to train yourself to act in ways that will further your goals. Creativity is the ability to generate
unique ideas, goods, or services.
SOURCE: PD:066
SOURCE: PD LAP 4—Own Your Own (Career Opportunities in Entrepreneurship)
95. D
Family and friends. Family and friends often are the best source of information about job leads because
they may know of openings at their own places of employment. Also, they have other contacts within the
business community and may be able to refer job seekers to their associates who may have available
positions. Business advisors usually provide guidance and assistance to businesses. The Occupational
Outlook Handbook describes the various types of jobs available in the workplace but does not provide job
leads. The Bureau of Labor Statistics analyzes current data to project what types of jobs will be needed
in the future but does not offer leads.
SOURCE: PD:026
SOURCE: Bailey, L.J. (2007). Working (4th ed.) [p. 33]. Mason, OH: South-Western Cengage Learning.
96. B
Listening. It is important for job applicants to listen carefully to what the interviewers are saying and
asking. Failure to pay close attention may result in the applicants' giving incorrect information or not
completely answering the questions. Not listening also may indicate to an interviewer that an applicant is
not interested in the position. Applicants should not read materials while an interviewer is asking
questions. Applicants should wait until the interviewer has completed the question before talking. On
occasion, applicants may write notes about what the interviewer is saying, but they should not let that
interfere with their ability to listen carefully.
SOURCE: PD:028
SOURCE: Bailey, L.J. (2007). Working (4th ed.) [pp. 67-68]. Mason, OH: South-Western Cengage
Learning.
97. A
Highlights of skills and experience. A letter of application is a formal communication that states an
applicant's interest in a specific job opening. In the opening paragraph, the applicant should explain why
s/he is writing, and indicate which position s/he is applying for. In the body of the letter, the applicant
should highlight his/her skills and experience and describe why s/he is a good candidate for the position.
The body of the letter should also ask the reader to review the applicant's résumé, which the applicant
should include with the letter. The closing paragraph should ask the reader for an interview. Questions
about the job and reasons for leaving a current job are topics that the applicant and interviewer discuss
during the interview process.
SOURCE: PD:030
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (pp. 125-126). New
York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

29

98. D
Present your job qualifications. A job résumé is an organized presentation of the most basic facts about a
job applicant's work and school history. It is intended to show how the applicant is qualified for the job
s/he is seeking. The employer who scans the résumé will know whether the applicant's background
makes him/her a likely candidate for a particular job opening. Describing personal interests is optional
and is often omitted. A list of references may be included, or the résumé may state that references will be
provided upon request. A letter of application or a cover letter sent with the résumé requests a job
interview.
SOURCE: PD:031
SOURCE: Bailey, L.J. (2007). Working (4th ed.) [pp. 49-51]. Mason, OH: South-Western Cengage
Learning.
99. A
Unpaid internships often lead to full-time paid positions. An internship is training in which schools and
businesses cooperate to provide on-the-job practice for learners. In many situations, businesses offer
hard-working interns full-time paid positions after they finish school. Some companies pay interns and
some do not. Some, but not all, internship programs provide job rotation opportunities; therefore, job
rotation is not always the most important aspect of an internship.
SOURCE: PD:032
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (p. 55). New York:
Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
100. A
First-line. First-line or supervisory managers work directly with the employees who carry out the
business's routine work. First-line managers report to the mid-level managers. Mid-level managers are
responsible for implementing the goals set by executive (top-level) managers, and are the link between
supervisory and executive (top-level) managers. Mid-level managers report to the executive managers.
Executive managers are responsible for the whole organization and spend most of their time setting
organizational goals and conducting strategic planning. A regional manager manages employees in a
specific location or region. Regional managers are usually considered mid-level managers.
SOURCE: SM:001
SOURCE: SM LAP 3—Manage This! (Concept of Management)

