KEY
Test Number 1068

Business Administration
Core Exam
PBM - Principles of Business Management and Administration Event
PFN - Principles of Finance Event
PHT - Principles of Hospitality and Tourism Event
PMK - Principles of Marketing Event

CAUTION: Posting these materials on a website is a copyright violation unless
specifically authorized by MBAResearch.
This comprehensive exam was developed by the MBAResearch Center under contract with
DECA, Inc. Items have been randomly selected from the MBAResearch Test-Item Bank and
represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance Indicators for this exam are at the
prerequisite and career-sustaining levels. A descriptive test key, including question sources and
answer rationale, has been provided the state DECA advisor.

Copyright © 2013 by Marketing & Business Administration Research and
Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio (dba MBAResearch). Each individual test item contained
herein is the exclusive property of MBAResearch. Items are licensed only for use as configured
within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than as specifically
authorized in writing by MBAResearch is prohibited. Possession of this exam, without written
authorization, under any other circumstances is a copyright violation. Posting to inter- or
intranet sites is specifically forbidden unless written permission is obtained prior to posting.
Report violations to MBAResearch at 800.448.0398. Permission for reprinting is granted to state
DECA Associations authorized by DECA, Inc.

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

10

1. D
Continuous assistance is provided by the franchisor. A business-format franchise is a more complex and
more popular type of franchise arrangement than the product trade-name franchise. It involves a close,
continuous, working relationship between the franchisor and the franchisee. Examples of the businessformat franchise are McDonald's, Holiday Inn, and Jiffy Lube. Products and other materials usually must
be purchased from the franchisor's list of approved vendors. The franchisee must operate under the
trade name of the franchisor.
SOURCE: BL:003
SOURCE: BL LAP 1—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership)
2. C
Good reading skills. All business employees need to possess basic reading skills. However, employees
who are required to extract relevant information from written materials should possess good reading skills
because some of the materials may contain complex information that is difficult to understand. Good
reading skills include the ability to focus on the content and analyze and evaluate the meaning of the
message. Employees who possess good reading skills usually have extensive vocabularies and are
willing to look up the meaning of unfamiliar words. Possessing the ability to listen or an effective speaking
voice will not help employees to extract relevant information from written materials.
SOURCE: CO:055
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2009). Marketing essentials (pp. 182-183). New
York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
3. C
The use of company property. Businesses often develop employee handbooks, which provide
information about their general policies and procedures. Employee handbooks are usually given to new
employees when they are hired. Employee handbooks usually provide information about overtime and
vacation policies, disciplinary and grievance procedures, pay schedules, dress codes, and behavioral
expectations in its employee handbook. Many employee handbooks include information about employees
and their personal use of company property. Company-property issues that the handbook might address
include making personal long-distance phone calls on the company phone and using the office copy
machine or laser printer for non-business purposes. Lists of the company's current job openings and
personal information about vacation days are usually available through the human-resources department,
and are not included in the employee handbook. Additionally, the company's annual report is not usually
included in the employee handbook. Often, corporations post their annual reports on the company's web
site.
SOURCE: CO:057
SOURCE: SmallBusinessNotes.com. (n.d.). Employee handbook. Retrieved August 2, 2012, from
http://www.smallbusinessnotes.com/managing-your-business/employee-handbook.html
4. C
Don't rush. When Millie skips ahead of the knitting directions in her book, she is rushing forward without
all the information she needs to make the scarf. Reading and following directions is not a race. Taking
your time and following the steps provided will ensure that you don't leave something out or do
something incorrectly. This improves your chances of doing it right. In this situation, Millie is not ignoring
the tips to know when to speak, accept responsibility, or note key words.
SOURCE: CO:119
SOURCE: QS LAP 24—Simon Says
5. D
Use gestures for emphasis. Appropriate gestures can help to emphasize the point the speaker wants to
make, and they are an important part of effective verbal communication. Speech mannerisms are
distracting to listeners and should be avoided. The tone of the voice should be modulated, or changed, to
prevent the speaker from sounding monotonous. Eye contact with listeners is important in maintaining
communication and making them feel the speaker is addressing them personally.
SOURCE: CO:147
SOURCE: Ober, S. (2007). Fundamentals of contemporary business communication (2nd ed.)
[pp. 50-51]. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company.

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

11

6. A
Facial expressions. Nonverbal cues are communication that involves the use of gestures or facial
expressions, rather than the use of words. Facial expressions usually are the most important aspect of
nonverbal cues or body language. For example, when people feel emotions such as happiness or anger,
those emotions are expressed through smiles, frowns, and eye patterns. It is easy to see that someone is
happy if s/he is smiling. Leg movements are a type of body language; however, they are not as effective
a way to interpret nonverbal cues. Clothing style and office decor are nonverbal cues also, but they are
not as easy to interpret as facial expressions.
SOURCE: CO:059
SOURCE: Lesikar, R.V., & Flatley, M.E. (2005). Basic business communication: Skills for empowering
the Internet generation (10th ed.) [pp. 425-427]. Boston: McGraw-Hill/Irwin.
7. B
Use visuals. It is often more difficult to give verbal directions than to provide written directions unless the
information is fairly simple or familiar to the audience. To overcome the problem of giving verbal
directions, it is often helpful to use visuals such as diagrams or charts. The visuals reinforce the verbal
directions and help the audience to understand the explanation. It is not helpful to speak softly, use
complex words, or limit body language when giving verbal directions. These actions may make it more
difficult for the audience to understand the directions.
SOURCE: CO:083
SOURCE: Hyden, J.S., Jordan, A.K., Steinauer, M.H., & Jones, M.J. (2006). Communicating for
success (3rd ed.) [p. 114]. Mason, OH: Thomson South-Western.
8. C
Defending an idea objectively. Roberto is using facts to overcome an objection and defend his idea in a
professional manner. A conclusion is the prepared ending of a presentation. Since Roberto had just
finished his presentation, he had already delivered the conclusion. A transition occurs mid-speech to shift
from one point to another smoothly. Cultural barriers to new ideas occur when a person allows his/her
cultural background to affect his/her thinking. Roberto is trying to overcome a barrier to his presentation
by using fact-based research.
SOURCE: CO:061
SOURCE: Thabet, Dia. (2010, November 28). How to defend your idea without getting defensive.
Retrieved on August 2, 2012, from http://.ezinearticles.com/?How-to-Defend-Your-IdeaWithout-Getting-Defensive&id=5460159
9. A
Many opinions increase the chances of developing useful recommendations. Many businesses
encourage employees to participate in group discussions to analyze problems and find solutions. The
advantage is that when employees share many different opinions, there is an increase in the chance of
developing useful recommendations. However, the group leader needs to encourage participation, and
make all members feel comfortable so they will express their ideas and opinions. A disadvantage of
group discussions is that conflict is more likely to occur when more people express different opinions,
especially about controversial issues. Group discussions do not always lead to decisions in which all
participants agree, nor do they always help the business solve problems quickly.
SOURCE: CO:053
SOURCE: Miculka, J. (2007). Speaking for success (2nd ed.) [p. 132]. Mason, OH: Thomson SouthWestern.
10. C
Key points. Effective note-taking involves writing down the most important information or key points for
future reference. A person generally speaks faster than another person writes, so it would be difficult for
a person to write down every detail or word the speaker says. The key points cited during a seminar may
or may not be of interest to the businessperson. Inaccurate statements should not be cited during a
seminar.
SOURCE: CO:085
SOURCE: Hyden, J.S., Jordan, A.K., Steinauer, M.H., & Jones, M.J. (2006). Communicating for
success (3rd ed.) [p. 225]. Mason, OH: Thomson South-Western.

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

12

11. A
The data are too complex to describe in the body of the text. Tables present text or numbers in a grid
format. The table allows readers to see groups of data together for comparison. Tables are also useful
because they summarize data in an easy to read format. Tables present data (e.g., statistics) that may be
too wordy or complex to describe in a paragraph format. Tables should appear in a document where they
are most appropriate, which may be the body, conclusions, recommendations, or appendices. The
inclusion of a bibliography is not a factor when determining if a table should be included in the document.
The primary purpose of tables is to provide information, which may or may not build credibility and
impress the audience.
SOURCE: CO:087
SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., & Thill, J.V. (2008). Business communication today (9th ed.) [p. 371]. Upper
Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.
12. D
All the necessary information. When preparing written communication, one of the most important rules is
to be thorough and provide all the necessary information because the receiver may not have the
opportunity to ask questions in person. Letters confirming customer orders should answer the questions
of who, what, when, and where by including specific information about ordered items, quantity, delivery
address, etc. The letters should contain all the necessary information to verify that what the business
intends to provide is exactly what the customers have requested. Whether product ratings and grades,
exchange rates, and a map of all business locations are necessary information to include in a
confirmation letter depends on the type of business and the customer's needs.
SOURCE: CO:016
SOURCE: Stutts, A.T., & Wortman, J.F. (2006). Hotel and lodging management: An introduction
(2nd ed.) [p. 124]. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons.
13. C
Organize content in a cohesive, manageable way. Long business reports often contain a lot of
information about different topics. To organize the information so the audience can understand the
report's contents, report writers often break content into chunks of related information. Headings and
subheadings are often included before the section or topic to let the audience know the issue at hand.
Headings and subheadings do attract attention because they are often formatted with a larger or colorcoded font; however, the primary purpose is not to convey a hidden agenda, provide supporting
evidence, or solicit an opinion from the audience.
SOURCE: CO:088
SOURCE: Young, D.J. (2006). Foundations of business communication: An integrative approach
(pp. 461-462, 464-465). New York: McGraw-Hill/Irwin.
14. D
Title. The inside address section of a business letter should include the addressee's title, which might be
both a courtesy title and a job title, if known. A courtesy title such as Mr. or Ms. should always be used
and, whenever possible, a job title such as manager or president. A correct inside address with title is as
follows: Mr. John Doe, President. The subject, date, and message are not part of the inside address
section of a business letter.
SOURCE: CO:133
SOURCE: Roberts, S.J. (2012). Fundamentals of business communication (p. 200). Tinley Park, IL:
The Goodheart-Willcox Company, Inc.
15. C
Accurate content. Because informational messages communicate knowledge, facts, or data to the
message receiver, it is important that content is accurate. In the workplace, employees and managers
often make business decisions based on information they receive in informational messages, so it is very
important for the writer to include accurate content in the message. Although a writer might communicate
an emotional appeal, an honest opinion, or a request for action in his/her informational message,
accurate content is the most important consideration.
SOURCE: CO:039
th
SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., & Thill, J.V. (2008). Business communication today (9 ed.) [p. 95]. Upper
Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

13

16. B
Features and benefits. When they are planning on making large or expensive purchases, some business
customers ask the business to submit written sales proposals. Because the goal of the proposal is to
make a sale, a well-written proposal will tell the customer the benefits of purchasing the business's
products. The sales proposal should also point out the specific features of the products which may be
different from the features of a competitor's product. The proposal might include shipping information, but
receiving is controlled by the customer. The proposal usually includes pricing information but not
accounting information. Laws and regulations usually are not part of a sales proposal unless the product
is one that is regulated by the government.
SOURCE: CO:062
SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., & Thill, J.V. (2008). Business communication today (9th ed.) [pp. 308-309].
Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.
17. B
Contribute at least one opinion to every staff meeting in which you participate. While contributing is
important, it should only be done if you have something meaningful to contribute. Setting goals for the
number of times you speak up during a meeting can lead to time spent on unnecessary discussions. It is
important to understand the purpose of the meeting prior to attending so that you can think about any
contributions you can make about the topics to be covered. It is inevitable that conflicting viewpoints will
surface during meetings. Always be courteous and respectful of both the leader and the other
participants. This includes behaving professionally when differing points of view are addressed to avoid
arguments.
SOURCE: CO:063
SOURCE: Lesikar, R.V., & Flatley, M.E. (2005). Basic business communication: Skills for empowering
th
the Internet generation (10 ed.) [pp. 416-417]. Boston: McGraw-Hill/Irwin.
18. C
Be helpful. Roger is displaying helpfulness to this customer. He didn't know the answer to the customer's
question, but he immediately went into action to find the person who did. This situation does not illustrate
keeping promises, paying attention to internal customers (employees), or being thankful.
SOURCE: CR:003
SOURCE: CR LAP 1—Accentuate the Positive (Nature of Customer Relations)
19. B
Organized. Employees should always be well organized and prepared to provide customer service in a
quick, convenient manner. Customers don't have a lot of time to waste. They expect employees to be
knowledgeable about company goods and services, organized, and ready to work. Being organized will
help employees to focus on serving customers. Employees should not be forceful or aggressive when
dealing with customers. Employees who are detached give the impression of not caring about customers.
SOURCE: CR:004
SOURCE: Hyden, J.S., Jordan, A.K., Steinauer, M.H., & Jones, M.J. (2006). Communicating for
rd
success (3 ed.) [pp. 141, 226-228]. Mason, OH: Thomson South-Western.
20. C
Using humor. Because Germans tend to be very formal and serious about their business, they do not find
it appropriate to use humor during business situations. It is appropriate to use titles, shake hands, and
make eye contact with Germans in business situations. These behaviors are respectful to Germans.
SOURCE: CR:019
SOURCE: Priest, M. (n.d.). Germany: Behavior. Retrieved August 2, 2012, from
http://www.cyborlink.com/besite/germany.htm
21. D
Satisfy customers. Effective business policies are designed to satisfy customers by meeting their wants
and needs. At the same time, the policies are meant to make a fair profit for the business. Business
policies also are developed to keep operations running smoothly, to reduce misunderstandings, and to
guide employees' actions.
SOURCE: CR:007
SOURCE: Odgers, P. (2004). The world of customer service (p. 52). Mason, OH: South-Western.

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

14

22. C
Domineering/Superior. Carrie's customer is domineering/superior. He's talking down to her and giving her
orders on how to do her job. A slow/methodical customer is indecisive or just takes a long time to make
up his/her mind. A suspicious customer questions everything and is constantly worried that your business
might take advantage of him/her. An irritable/moody customer is unpredictable—s/he might be your best
friend one day and a real crab the next.
SOURCE: CR:009
SOURCE: CR LAP 3—Making Mad Glad (Handling Difficult Customers)
23. C
Product, personnel, and the business. Customer complaints can generally be divided into three general
areas—the product, the business's employees, and the business itself. Product complaints result when
products are defective, the wrong size or color, damaged or spoiled, don't meet customers' needs, or are
mispriced. Complaints about employees come from the use of high-pressure selling techniques,
rudeness, lack of product knowledge, inaccuracy, and poor service. Customer complaints against the
business itself are generally related to the business's policies and procedures.
SOURCE: CR:010
SOURCE: Odgers, P. (2004). The world of customer service (pp. 54-57). Mason, OH: South-Western.
24. C
Children's apparel. Consumer products, such as children's apparel, are defined as those economic goods
and services that are purchased and used by the ultimate consumer. The other alternatives would all be
considered capital products because they are purchased by businesses for use in their operations.
SOURCE: EC:002
SOURCE: EC LAP 10—Get the Goods on Goods and Services (Economic Goods and Services)
25. B
Scarcity. Because of scarcity, choices must be made about which goods and services will be produced.
Conservation promotes careful use of scarce resources in order to make them last longer.
Unemployment is an economic condition in which individuals are not currently working in a gainful
capacity. Abundance is an ample supply of any commodity, or the opposite of scarcity.
SOURCE: EC:001
SOURCE: EC LAP 6—Are You Satisfied? (Economics)
26. C
Form and place. Processing crude oil into gasoline creates form utility because the raw material is
changed into a useful form. Delivering gasoline to a service station creates place utility because the good
is made available at the place where it is needed by consumers. Time utility is created when a product is
made available when the customer needs it. Possession utility, or the completion of a transaction, has
occurred, but time utility has not.
SOURCE: EC:004
SOURCE: EC LAP 13—Use It (Utility)
27. B
Low. There is an inverse relationship between consumer demand and the price of the product. In other
words, the higher the price of a product, the lower the consumer demand for it will be.
SOURCE: EC:005
SOURCE: EC LAP 11—It's the Law (Supply and Demand)
28. A
Contribute to the well-being of society. Businesses can show their social responsibility by maximizing
their profits and/or contributing to public interests. While some businesses do provide certain social
activities for employees, or may have a credit union from which employees can obtain loans for various
purposes, these are not duties of social responsibility. Contributing to product development would benefit
the business, not society.
SOURCE: EC:070
SOURCE: EC LAP 20—Business Connections (Business and Society)

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

15

29. A
Communist command. In a communist command economy, capital for business investment is provided
by the government, which obtains it by taking the profits of businesses it owns and by levying taxes. The
government owns the businesses and controls the economy; therefore, it receives all the profits. The
people are not allowed to invest in the economy. In a traditional economy, people produce only what they
must have in order to exist. In a free enterprise or a market economy, the means of production and
distribution are owned and controlled by individuals and businesses.
SOURCE: EC:007
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2006). Marketing dynamics (pp. 93-94). Tinley Park, IL:
Goodheart-Willcox.
30. D
Gross profit on sales. After gross profit is calculated, the costs of running the business (known as
operating expenses) are subtracted from gross profit to determine whether the business has a net profit
or a loss. When your business's operating expenses are greater than your gross profit on sales, a net
loss results. The gross domestic product is the final market value of the total output of all goods and
services produced within a country's geographic boundaries during a year's time.
SOURCE: EC:010
SOURCE: EC LAP 2—Risk Rewarded (Profit)
31. D
Patents or copyrights. The government issues patents or copyrights to inventors and artists to protect
their work. Although the government provides local governmental programs, this response is not specific
enough to be correct for protecting private property. Federal Reserve Banks are used by local banks for
their banking functions. They do not provide protection for local property. Local governments provide fire
protection through fire departments, not through fire insurance.
SOURCE: EC:008
SOURCE: EC LAP 16—Regulate and Protect (Government and Business)
32. D
Combining well-qualified workers and efficient job methods. Productivity is the amount and value of
goods and services produced (outputs) from set amounts of resources (inputs). In order for a business to
achieve maximum productivity, it must hire well-qualified workers, train them in efficient job methods, and
provide them with up-to-date equipment. Productivity also increases when businesses use two-way
communication, involve employees in the decision-making process, and offer flexible work schedules and
overtime hours.
SOURCE: EC:013
SOURCE: EC LAP 18—Productivity (Make the Most of It)
33. D
Collaboration is becoming a standard method of achieving business goals. Collaboration is used more
and more to achieve business goals. You can see this in the frequent use of teams, group projects, and
joint ventures. Our culture is not more relaxed and free; it is busier than ever. Emotional intelligence does
not ensure a more secure business environment. And, even though more people can be world travelers
and see other cultures, emotional intelligence is also important for people who do not travel.
SOURCE: EI:001
SOURCE: EI LAP 6—EQ and You (Emotional Intelligence)
34. C
Takes time and practice. Visualization is the practice of imagining yourself in possession of a present or
desired strength. It is not always learned quickly or easily, but it does work well and can be very
rewarding.
SOURCE: EI:016
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (p. 197). New York:
Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

16

35. B
Loyalty. Loyalty to a job means keeping confidential any information about a business that is not
supposed to be public knowledge. Trade secrets are very important to some businesses. Tact is the
ability to express your ideas and opinions so that they do not hurt or offend others. Industry is diligence.
Initiative is enterprise and determination. Tact, industry, and initiative do not deal with keeping trade
secrets confidential.
SOURCE: EI:018
SOURCE: EI LAP 9—You've Got Personality (Personality Traits in Business)
36. A
Unexpected. Initiative is willingness to act without having to be told to do so. An excellent way to show
initiative is to handle emergency and other unusual situations on your own. An example might be filling in
for a coworker who is ill. Handling regular, routine, or training situations does not reflect initiative.
SOURCE: EI:024
SOURCE: EI LAP 2—Hustle! (Taking Initiative at Work)
37. D
Work to let them know where she is. Calling work right away is responsible behavior because it gives the
business a chance to make any arrangements that are necessary to cover necessary responsibilities.
Calling for a tow truck, insurance estimates, or a rental car are later steps that may need to be taken.
SOURCE: EI:021
SOURCE: PD LAP 7—Make the Honor Role (Acting Responsibly)
38. B
Integrity. Integrity is adhering to an established set of personal ethics. Ethics give people standards by
which they can judge situations and decide what is the right thing to do. Dignity is pride. Conflicts are
disagreements. Commitment is dedication or devotion to something or someone.
SOURCE: EI:022
rd
SOURCE: Dalton, M., Hoyle, D.G., & Watts, M.W. (2006). Human relations (3 ed.) [p. 416]. Mason,
OH: South-Western Cengage Learning.
39. A
Blaming another person for his mistake. Taking responsibility for your actions involves accepting the
consequences (good or bad) of your behavior, admitting and learning from your mistakes, and trying to
do better in the future. In the example, Jason blamed the office assistant for the mistake, but he is the
employee who is responsible for ordering the washers. By blaming another employee, Jason is failing to
accept responsibility for his actions. Jason was not helping Susan to resolve the problem, providing a
valid reason for the stock-out, or denying that a problem exists.
SOURCE: EI:075
SOURCE: Payne, S. (2010, January 19). Accepting responsibility for your own work. Retrieved August
2, 2012, from http://www.helium.com/items/1587239-accepting-responsibility-for-your-ownwork
40. D
Responsible. Positive people accept responsibility for their own actions and don't try to blame others
when they make a mistake. They care about their job duties and are willing to learn new tasks or to take
on new duties. This makes them valuable employees. Positive people are flexible and adaptable. They
are also generous, but that is not important to the business. Whether they are well trained is related to
their background rather than their attitude.
SOURCE: EI:019
SOURCE: EI LAP 3—Opt for Optimism (Positive Attitude)

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

17

41. D
It prevents Maureen from hearing the criticism clearly. Defensiveness raises a barrier between you and
the speaker. Most of us feel angry or resentful when we are criticized, especially when the criticism is
unjust. However, we cannot afford to exhibit this kind of attitude on the job. If Maureen listened with an
open mind to the supervisor, she might learn not only how to correct her mistakes but how to avoid the
mistakes in the future. Maureen's attitude indicates immaturity rather than a desire to call attention to
herself.
SOURCE: EI:003
SOURCE: EI LAP 15—Grin and Bear It (Using Feedback for Personal Growth)
42. D
Resistant. Being resistant to change means to oppose or withstand change. The manager was resisting a
technical change. Being receptive to change means to accept change. Being unable to change means
not having the ability to change. Being willing to change means to accept change.
SOURCE: EI:026
SOURCE: tutor2u. (n.d.). Strategy: Types of change in business. Retrieved August 2, 2012, from
http://tutor2u.net/business/strategy/change_types.html
43. D
Workplace privacy. An employee's right to privacy in the workplace is becoming more controversial
primarily as a result of new technology. Today, many employers use video cameras to monitor
employees on the job. Businesses also are able to track employees' use of computers and access their
e-mail. Businesses often feel that they have the right to take these measures because employees are
using company equipment on the company's time. On the other hand, employees often feel that
businesses do not have the right to invade their privacy by reading e-mail messages or recording phone
conversations. Job enlargement involves combining job tasks so that a worker has more responsibility for
the completion of a job. Wellness programs and social status are not issues that cause controversy
between employers and employees.
SOURCE: EI:029
SOURCE: Privacy Rights Clearinghouse. (2012, May). Fact sheet 7: Workplace privacy and employee
monitoring. Retrieved August 2, 2012, from https://www.privacyrights.org/fs/fs7-work.htm/
44. B
Cultural imperialism. Businesses in some countries, especially more developed ones, may have an
attitude that their approach, tastes, or preferences are "better" than those of other countries, particularly
less developed ones. Or, they may believe their cultural beliefs and attitudes are the only ones and
neglect other countries' cultures altogether. This is cultural imperialism. It is not an effective business
practice and does not lead to success in the long run. Globalization refers to keeping a product and
advertising message the same around the world, while nationalization refers to something whose
ownership is taken over by the government. Product adaptation is changing a product in some way to
make it more appropriate for another country's preferences.
SOURCE: EI:033
SOURCE: Buzzle. (2012). Cultural imperialism examples. Retrieved August 2, 2012, from
http://www.buzzle.com/articles/cultural-imperialism-examples.html
45. A
Nonverbal. Nonverbal communication is all of the things you express with body movements and facial
expressions. Making and maintaining eye contact communicates interest in another person and what
s/he is saying. Formal communication, such as business letters and reports, is expressed in more formal
language than informal communication, which may take the form of memos or even rumors passed
through the grapevine. Verbal communication is transmitted orally.
SOURCE: EI:007
SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., & Thill, J.V. (2008). Business communication today (9th ed.) [pp. 54-56]. Upper
Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

18

46. D
Avoidance. Passive behavior is often called avoidance behavior because the main goal is to avoid
conflict at almost any cost. It is the opposite of confrontational behavior which is frequently defiant or
hostile. Passive behavior would not be referred to as creative.
SOURCE: EI:008
SOURCE: EI LAP 18—Assert Yourself (Assertiveness)
47. B
Objectivity and attentiveness. Adaptable people consistently exhibit certain attitudes or behavior,
regardless of the circumstances. Some characteristics of adaptable people include objectivity;
attentiveness; empathy; confidence; a respectful, positive, and self-corrective attitude; and constructive
(positive) risk taking. Resistance and fear are not attributes of adaptable people. Adaptable people do not
always do things accurately. Increased creativity is considered a positive outcome of adaptable behavior,
rather than a characteristic of adaptability.
SOURCE: EI:006
SOURCE: QS LAP 15—Stuff Happens
48. D
Facts. Vision is the future that you desire to create. To fulfill a vision, the leader may need to get others to
embrace the vision and help him/her carry it out. Enlisting others' support might include using rational
persuasion, which is the method of appealing to others' intellects and minds by providing supporting facts
or evidence. By providing facts and evidence, the leader is giving reasons to support the vision. Practices
are procedures or activities that are followed. Skills are abilities. Assumptions are thoughts or information
that are taken for granted as being true, but may not be true.
SOURCE: EI:060
SOURCE: EI LAP 13—Vision Quest (Enlisting Others in Vision)
49. A
Approachability. A coach is a person who enables other people to reach their true potential by helping
them to overcome the barriers that are keeping them from doing something they want to achieve.
Approachability is the attitude or demeanor that lets another person know that you are open and
available to talk to him/her. Persistence is continuing to work at a task or idea until the desired outcome is
achieved. Humility is the lack of pride. Dependability is doing what you say you will do.
SOURCE: EI:041
SOURCE: QS LAP 7—Bring Out the Best
50. A
Interferes with the group's output. When there are frequent personality conflicts in a work group, the
result is usually that it interferes with the group's output, overall effectiveness, and performance. Conflicts
may not bring the work effort to a standstill, but they will slow it considerably. People who have frequent
personality conflicts are generally not compatible.
SOURCE: EI:037
SOURCE: EI LAP 5—Can You Relate? (Positive Working Relationships)
51. C
Credit. Credit is the arrangement in which businesses and individuals can purchase now and pay later.
One option businesses have to obtain credit is to secure credit cards from lending institutions.
Businesses can obtain the goods and services they need right away, such as airline tickets and supplies,
and then pay for the items when they receive their statement from their lending institutions. Businesses
often purchase the things they need to operate effectively online. In fact, many web-based businesses
will only accept credit cards as a form of payment. Debit cards, ATM cards, and store-value (gift) cards
do not delay payment.
SOURCE: FI:058
SOURCE: Kapoor, J.R., Dlabay, L.R., & Hughes, R.J. (2005). Personal finance (pp. 126-127, 160-162).
New York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

19

52. C
Unit of measure. Money can serve as a unit of measure to determine or compare the relative worth of
different products. Chris compares the monetary value of the two candy bars and selects the less
expensive one. While money does serve as the medium of exchange in this example, the fact that Chris
is using money instead of some other medium of exchange does not directly impact his decision. Money
would serve as the medium of exchange even if he purchases the more expensive candy bar. Store of
value means that money can be held over time and still have purchasing power at a later date. The
money that Chris is using is not a commodity because it does not have another use.
SOURCE: FI:060
SOURCE: Slideshare. (n.d.). Money: Its uses and characteristics. Retrieved August 2, 2012, from
http://www.slideshare.net/Geckos/uses-and-characteristics-of-money-presentation
53. B
Exceed the rate of inflation. When making investments, it is important to consider the time value of
money, which is the difference between the money's current purchasing power in relation to its
purchasing power at a future date. Earnings from investments can come in different forms, such as
accumulated interest from debt securities or dividends from equity securities. At the end of the
investment period, a successful investment will yield more money than the investor started with.
However, it is important to consider the rate of inflation—which is an increase in prices of goods and
services. If inflation increases more rapidly than the investment earns (e.g., 10%) during the investment
period, then the value of money earned will not yield the desired results. Documents and forms do not
affect the time value of money.
SOURCE: FI:062
SOURCE: Dlabay, L.R., & Burrow, J.L. (2008). Business finance (pp. 89-92, 180). South-Western
Cengage Learning.
54. D
Increase sales volume. Retail credit allows the consumer to purchase now and pay later. Credit
encourages customers to buy impulse items and larger quantities or more expensive items, all of which
increase a business's sales volume. Because of increased record-keeping expenses and bad-debt
losses, offering credit does not lower operating costs but increases them. Offering credit is unrelated to
any decisions concerning business hours.
SOURCE: FI:002
SOURCE: FI LAP 2—Give Credit Where Credit is Due (Credit and Its Importance)
55. D
College education. Most new parents begin saving for their children's college education after they are
born, but some begin earlier. Tommy will likely have to pay for his own retirement and life insurance. As
soon as he is born, he will likely be put on their health insurance until he can afford his own.
SOURCE: FI:064
SOURCE: Kapoor, J.R., Dlabay, L.R., Hughes, R.J., & Hoyt, W.B. (2005). Business and personal
finance (p. 266). New York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
56. A
Non-essential. The gum and the magazine are extras. An example of an essential expense would be
paying the rent or car loans. Rent and car loans are also examples of fixed expenses. Variable expenses
are also essential expenses, but they vary from month to month. Some examples are heating and electric
bills, and gasoline.
SOURCE: FI:066
SOURCE: eHow.com. (1999-2012). How to identify "essential" and "nonessential" expenses. Retrieved
August 2, 2012, from http://www.ehow.com/how_12211191_identify-essential-nonessentialexpenses.html

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

20

57. D
$1,014.11. Gross earnings are an employee's wages before taxes and other deductions, such as medical
insurance and union dues, are withheld from his/her paycheck. Net pay is the amount of money the
employee receives in his/her paycheck after deductions are subtracted. Employers provide an itemized
list of earnings and deductions on the employee's pay stub. To calculate Jason's gross earnings for the
pay period, add his net pay, total tax obligation, medical insurance, and union dues together ($796.84 +
$157.27 + $45.00 + $15.00 = $1,014.11).
SOURCE: FI:068
SOURCE: Kapoor, J.R., Dlabay, L.R., Hughes, R.J., & Hoyt, W.B. (2005). Business and personal
finance (p. 613). New York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
58. A
Track the amount of money she has spent. A check is a negotiable instrument or bank draft made
payable to a specific party for a specific amount of money. A check serves as a written promise to the
check bearer that money is available in the issuer's bank account. Checks are a common form of
financial exchange. Both individuals and businesses use checks to pay for goods and services such as
rent, utilities, food, and supplies. When writing a check, an individual or business keeps a check register
that records information about the transaction. This information includes the date the check is written, to
whom the check is made payable, the amount of the check, and the check number. The register is a
central location to record and track all of the checks written and the amount of money spent. Check
registers do not help the check issuers determine when to add funds to a savings account, understand
the checking account's restrictions and fees, or decide when to order new checks.
SOURCE: FI:069
SOURCE: Kapoor, J.R., Dlabay, L.R., Hughes, R.J., & Hoyt, W.B. (2005). Business and personal
finance (pp. 143-145). New York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
59. A
Buy more with his card than he can afford. If Jeff does this, he will be headed towards a mounting credit
card debt. He should pay his bill on time to build good credit. Thinking of his card as a loan and tracking
his spending habits will keep him from overspending.
SOURCE: FI:071
SOURCE: Kapoor, J.R., Dlabay, L.R., & Hughes, R.J. (2009). Personal finance (9th ed.) [p. 171]. New
York: McGraw-Hill Irwin.
60. A
Validating credit history. If Eric had not checked his credit score, he would not have known that the credit
bureaus mishandled his report. This example shows one of the steps for buying a house, but it is not an
example of the importance of buying a house. Paying rent on time is one way to develop good credit;
neither are truly illustrated in this example.
SOURCE: FI:072
SOURCE: GettingaCreditCard.com. (2006-2012). Common practice of very responsible credit card
users. Retrieved August 2, 2012, from http://www.gettingacreditcard.com/article12.shtml
61. A
Identity theft. Identity theft occurs when someone illegally obtains another person's information and uses
that information to assume the other person's identity. One way to protect against identity theft is to
immediately contact the credit-card company if credit cards are lost. If the cards fall into the hands of an
unauthorized person, that person can attempt to use the cards as if s/he was the owner of the card. This
is a type of identity theft. If someone uses another person's credit card illegally, the penalty is not
excessive and, in many situations, there is no penalty if the company is notified before any illegal use
occurs. Therefore, there is virtually no financial risk. Immediately contacting the credit-card company
does not protect against high interest rates.
SOURCE: FI:073
SOURCE: Kapoor, J.R., Dlabay, L.R., Hughes, R.J., & Hoyt, W.B. (2005). Business and personal
finance (pp. 181-182). New York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

21

62. B
Securities. In investing, legal owning- or lending-agreements between individuals, businesses, or
governments are known as securities. Securities can be separated into "owning" and "lending"
categories. Collateral is anything of value belonging to the borrower that is pledged to the lender to
guarantee that the loan will be repaid. Premiums are the fees paid by policyholders to insurance
companies to maintain insurance policies. Guarantees are sometimes provided by sellers to buyers in a
purchase situation.
SOURCE: FI:077
SOURCE: QS LAP 32—Risky Business
63. A
Contract. Insurance is a contractual agreement in which one company (insurer) will pay for specified
losses incurred by the other company (insured) in return for installment payments (premiums). Insurance
is a legal contract which may be terminated if the business fails to pay the agreed-upon payments or to
live up to the other terms of the contract. For example, a business may be required to maintain the facility
in good condition so it is safe. When a business purchases an insurance policy, it is not agreeing to the
terms of a charter. A premium is the installment payment. The business is the policyholder.
SOURCE: FI:081
SOURCE: Kapoor, J.R., Dlabay, L.R., Hughes, R.J., & Hoyt, W.B. (2005). Business and personal
finance (p. 411). New York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
64. A
Protection from theft and fraud. The accounting system should be set up in a way that makes it difficult
for employees to gain access to the system and make changes to the information. The cost of operating
the system and the capability to generate printed financial statements are not related to the issue of theft.
A business would not be likely to maintain both a computerized and a manual accounting system.
SOURCE: FI:085
SOURCE: FI LAP 5—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting)
65. C
Has cash available to use. The cash conversion cycle is the ratio that reflects the number of days
between a company paying for raw materials and receiving cash from selling the products made from
those raw materials. The longer this period of time, the longer the company's money is tied up and
unavailable for other uses. Therefore, a financial manager strives to keep the cash conversion cycle as
short as possible, so that the business has more free cash to work with. A dividend is the amount of
money that a corporation pays to a stockholder as earnings on an investment. The profit margin is a
product pricing consideration. The profit margin is the amount of money that a business earns on sales
after expenses and is expressed as a ratio. Liquid assets are things of value that the business owns,
which can be quickly converted to cash.
SOURCE: FI:354
SOURCE: FI LAP 7—Money Matters (Role of Finance)
66. C
Staffing the business. Human resources management is the process of planning, staffing, leading, and
organizing the employees of a business. Staffing is an important function because hiring and keeping
qualified employees will contribute to the success of the business. Employees who are capable and hardworking usually help the business to achieve its goals and be successful. It is not possible to completely
eliminate turnover. Management usually decides if it needs to expand and create more jobs. Human
resources management administers the compensation package, but it is not responsible for reducing
compensation.
SOURCE: HR:410
SOURCE: HR LAP 35—People Pushers (Human Resources Management)

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

22

67. A
Promotion. The example illustrates an advertising activity that is part of the promotion function.
Purchasing is a business activity necessary to obtain goods and services for use in the operation of a
business. Selling is responding to customer needs and wants through planned, personalized
communication that influences purchase decisions and enhances future business opportunities.
Product/Service management is the marketing function that involves obtaining, developing, maintaining,
and improving a product or service mix in response to market opportunities.
SOURCE: MK:002
SOURCE: MK LAP 1—Work the Big Six (Marketing Functions)
68. A
Internet. The Internet is a worldwide network of computers that enables users to access information and
communicate with others. Many businesses use the Internet to obtain needed external information
efficiently. For example, businesses can access the web sites of governmental agencies as well as
competitors to find information about specific issues. This is a fast and efficient way to obtain information
from a variety of sources without needing to visit the library and look through printed materials such as
textbooks. Software instructs computers to perform specific operations. Not all software is used to obtain
information.
SOURCE: NF:078
SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., Thill, J.V., & Mescon, M.H. (2007). Excellence in business (3rd ed.)
[pp. 139-143]. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.
69. C
Formal sales presentation. Presentation software is often used to provide visual support for oral
presentations. Presentation software is often used during sales presentations to provide customers or
prospective customers with visual information about the product's attributes and benefits. Graphic
depictions of products are especially useful for items that cannot be easily transported to other locations
because the audience can see an image of the product. Status meetings, employee performance
reviews, and union contract negotiations are not the most appropriate business situations in which to use
a computer-generated slideshow to highlight product information. The purpose of a status meeting is to
update the team about various aspects of a project. An employee performance review is a tool to provide
workers with feedback about their work efforts. Union contract negotiations occur when management and
labor representatives meet to reach agreement about the workers' pay, benefits, working conditions, etc.
SOURCE: NF:080
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2009). Marketing essentials (pp. 201-202).
Woodland Hills, CA: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
70. A
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 is a major federal law regarding information
management and accounting records. Businesses must take proper steps to comply with this legislation.
The Sherman Anti-Trust Act relates to monopolies. The Landrum-Griffin Act and the Taft-Hartley Act both
relate to labor issues.
SOURCE: NF:110
SOURCE: NF LAP 3—In the Know (Nature of Information Management)
71. A
Computer-aided design. This technology allows companies to experiment with different design
combinations for new products without investing time and money in building prototypes or going into
production. Computer-assisted manufacturing is used in actual production. Data processing gathers and
analyzes information but does not design product features. Artificial intelligence is software that allows
computers to learn and make decisions.
SOURCE: NF:003
SOURCE: wiseGEEK. (n.d.). What is CAD software? Retrieved August 2, 2012, from
http://www.wisegeek.com/what-is-cad-software.htm

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

23

72. B
Information systems. An information system is a method of gathering, storing, and analyzing data for the
purpose of making business decisions. Businesses acquire vast amounts of information that must be
stored and analyzed to make it useful. An effective information system enables a business to quickly and
accurately process information and use that information to make decisions. Businesses do not develop
operating procedures, survey methods, or management policies to be able to store and analyze data for
the purpose of making business decisions.
SOURCE: NF:083
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2006). Marketing essentials (p. 594). New
York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
73. D
It permanently stores the computer program files and data. The hard drive is the component of the
computer's central processing unit (CPU) that stores the computer's program files and inputted data. A
sound card is a device that transmits sound waves through the computer so the user can hear audio
elements. A computer monitor allows the user to view the computer data. The power supply transmits
power to other computer devices (e.g., printer) so they can operate.
SOURCE: NF:084
SOURCE: Computer Knowledge For You. (2012). Computer components knowledge. Retrieved August
2, 2012, from
http://www.computerknowledgeforyou.com/computercomponents/computer_components.htm
l
74. C
Wireless Fidelity. Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi) allows computer users to access the Internet through radio
frequencies, which don't require a physical connection to power grids. Wireless Internet allows users the
ability to access their e-mail and various web sites from their laptop computers or cellular telephones
from different locations. Analog or dial-up Internet access involves using telephone lines that are
connected to a modem. Broadband cable requires a cable modem to access the Internet. A portal is a
popular starting point for surfing the Web (e.g., Yahoo).
SOURCE: NF:086
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2009). Marketing essentials (pp. 208-210).
Woodland Hills, CA: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
75. C
Coca-Cola AND current market share AND cola AND United States. Search engines need to be given
directions using exact wording. Using "AND" links all of the required information together and gives a
more productive search. The more exact the wording, the more narrow the responses returned, and the
less time wasted on unrelated responses. Using "OR" as the logical operator will tell the search engine to
return information on individual topics instead of responses that include all four topics. The "AND/OR"
could return responses on either Coca-Cola or market share. It could also give you Coca-Cola market
share, but it might not; or it might be for a country other than the United States. The "Coca-Cola OR
current market share OR cola AND United States" could return responses for other companies, other
industries, or information on cola in the United States, but not the specific information needed.
SOURCE: NF:006
SOURCE: Google. (2012). Google search basics: More search help. Retrieved August 2, 2012, from
http://www.google.com/support/websearch/bin/answer.py?hl=en&answer=136861
76. A
Use the edit undo command. The edit undo command allows the computer user to “undo” a previous
action, such as deleting text by mistake. Although it is possible to retype the paragraph or to copy the text
from another document that contains the text, these actions are not as quick and easy as using the edit
undo command. A template is a standard format that helps users develop documents.
SOURCE: NF:007
SOURCE: Lamers, D. (2009). Chapter 8—Essential stuff: Undo. Retrieved August 2, 2012, from
http://www.computersforretirees.com/chapter8.html

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

24

77. D
Database. A database program allows the organized collection of information with pieces of information
related to one another. This information can be used to maintain, analyze, and combine customer
information. Spreadsheets, word-processing software, and computer-aided design do not perform the
functions required by the hotel.
SOURCE: NF:009
SOURCE: Chapple, M. (n.d.). What is a database? Retrieved August 2, 2012, from
http://databases.about.com/od/specificproducts/a/whatisadatabase.htm
78. C
$159.60. Spreadsheets are computer software programs and are used to save, sort, and update
information. Formulas are programmed into the software that can automatically calculate numerical data
such as percentages. Businesses often use spreadsheets to record, manage, and analyze a variety of
financial, sales, and inventory information. In this example, the manager is using a spreadsheet program
to calculate the sale price ($228.00 x 30% or .30 = $68.40; $228.00 - $68.40 = $159.60).
SOURCE: NF:010
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2009). Marketing essentials (pp. 574-575).
Woodland Hills, CA: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
79. D
Web server. After creating a web page, the developer needs to post the web page through a web server
or Internet service provider (IPS). The Web server or IPS may charge a fee to post and store the web
page, although some web servers will provide the service free of charge. Developers post web pages for
many reasons, which may include selling products to interested audiences. Legal permits are not
required to post a web page.
SOURCE: NF:042
SOURCE: Build-Website.com. (2010). Upload web page. Retrieved August 2, 2010, from http://buildwebsite.com/guide/upload.html
80. C
Product. Operations activities vary depending on a business's product. The product a business makes or
provides affects every aspect of operations. A business's name, tax return, or address should not affect
its operations activities.
SOURCE: OP:189
SOURCE: OP LAP 3—Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations)
81. A
Reporting noncompliance. Certain government agencies have developed health and safety regulations
that businesses are expected to follow in order to provide employees with a safe work environment. If
businesses do not comply with these regulations, they should be reported for noncompliance so the
necessary action can be taken to solve the problem and make the workplace safe for employees. The
goal is to correct dangerous situations and keep the workplace safe. An employee notifying a
government agency is not an example of spreading gossip, unethical behavior, or verbal communication.
In fact, the employee is exhibiting ethical behavior. Also, the employee may have notified the agency in
writing which is nonverbal communication.
SOURCE: OP:005
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri C.G. (2006). Marketing dynamics (pp. 407-408). Tinley Park,
IL: Goodheart-Willcox.
82. B
Fatigue. Fatigue is a state of mental and/or physical tiredness. Being fatigued can cause workers to have
difficulty paying attention on the job, to make mistakes, or to have accidents. Horseplay is behavior such
as running, jumping, wrestling, or showing off. Poor housekeeping can create such hazards as tools or
equipment on the floor for people to trip over or spilled liquids that can cause people to fall.
SOURCE: OP:007
SOURCE: Medical News Today. (2007, January 15). Fatigue in the workplace is common and costly.
Retrieved August 2, 2012, from http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/60732.php

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

25

83. D
Find out how serious it is. In order to know what needs to be done or how much help is needed,
employees need to find out whether the accident victim's injuries are minor or life threatening. Taking the
victim's pulse should be done by medical personnel. Depending on the seriousness of the injury, it may
be necessary to call a doctor or an ambulance, but an injured person should not be moved.
SOURCE: OP:009
SOURCE: Spears, M.C., & Gregoire, M.B. (2004). Foodservice organizations: A managerial and
systems approach (5th ed.) [pp. 320-323]. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall.
84. B
Robbery. To steal money from Puritan Supermarket, the robbers used force, violence, and fear to
persuade the cashier to give them the money in the cash register. Robbery is theft that involves the use
of force, violence, or fear. Shoplifting is the theft of goods by customers. Burglary is any illegal entry into
a building to commit a theft. Embezzlement is theft of valuables that have been entrusted to one's care.
SOURCE: OP:013
SOURCE: Montaldo, C. (n.d.). Robbery prevention tips for businesses. Retrieved August 2, 2012, from
http://crime.about.com/od/prevent/qt/prevent_robbery.htm
85. C
Their stores are geographically distant. Some retail chains have grown so large that central buying can
no longer effectively purchase for geographically distant stores. In response to this development, many
large retail firms have decentralized their purchasing operations by dividing the country into districts and
delegating part of central buying's responsibility to district managers who are more familiar with local
stores. Businesses usually obtain lower prices for large orders. Businesses do not decentralize their
purchasing operations because buyers prefer to be independent. Both centralized and decentralized
purchasing operations are able to maintain a wide variety of suppliers.
SOURCE: OP:015
SOURCE: OP LAP 2—Buy Right (The Nature of Purchasing)
86. C
Inventory of supplies. All businesses need to maintain an inventory of supplies in order to produce goods
and services for customers. Small businesses may only need office supplies while retailers also need
supplies to wrap packages. Large manufacturing businesses need vast inventories of resources to
produce products. Without an inventory of supplies, businesses will not be able to do even simple tasks.
The result might be a loss of customers and a loss of income. Some businesses may need only one
vendor rather than a list of vendors. Businesses do not need to maintain a schedule of accounts or
copies of invoices to produce goods and services for customers.
SOURCE: OP:031
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2006). Marketing dynamics (p. 360). Tinley Park, IL:
Goodheart-Willcox.
87. A
Capital-intensive. Capital-intensive production processes rely heavily on the use of expensive equipment
and materials rather than on the activities of workers. Facilities that generate electrical power are
examples of capital-intensive production processes because they use expensive equipment but few
workers. Intermittent production processes stop and restart at a later time. Labor-intensive production
processes cannot take place without skilled workers. Standardized production processes require simple,
repetitive tasks.
SOURCE: OP:017
SOURCE: OP LAP 4—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production)

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

26

88. C
Conservative. When in doubt, be conservative. This is especially true in selecting clothes for work. Your
work clothes should present a positive image of you and the business for which you work. They should
not distract customers from the products you sell or coworkers from doing their jobs. Choosing clothing
that is highly advertised, a current fad, or eye-catching would not be as wise as choosing something
conservative.
SOURCE: PD:002
SOURCE: PD LAP 5—Brand Me! (Personal Appearance)
89. B
Think in new ways. Employees who have innovation skills are able to think in new ways and come up
with new ideas and new solutions to problems and situations. Having innovation skills helps employees
to think critically and find effective options and solutions to work-related issues. Employees who have
innovation skills do not necessarily behave aggressively or socialize effectively. Having innovation skills
helps employees to find solutions to problems rather than react to problems.
SOURCE: PD:126
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (pp. 326-329). New
York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
90. B
Establishing criteria. Setting boundaries is also known as establishing criteria—because criteria give you
the parameters within which to make your decision. Pinpointing objectives, identifying alternatives, and
making decisions are separate steps in the nine-step decision-making model—and are not involved in the
setting of boundaries.
SOURCE: PD:017
SOURCE: PD LAP 10—Weigh Your Options (Decision Making in Business)
91. D
Taking courses required of those who do this kind of work. Whether you can complete the courses
successfully will tell you whether you can succeed in a particular field. For example, doing well in basic
and advanced accounting courses would indicate you have a good chance of being successful as an
accountant. Talking to someone in the field, asking your counselor for information about job
opportunities, and contacting businesses in the field are good ways of gathering information; but they are
not predictors of success.
SOURCE: PD:013
SOURCE: Bailey, L.J. (2007). Working (4th ed.) [p. 482]. Mason, OH: South-Western Cengage
Learning.
92. D
Equal pay. Many governments have established laws to help protect employees' rights in the workplace.
One right employees have is to earn fair and equal pay for performing the same work as others. In many
countries, it is illegal to pay an employee on the basis of race, age, or gender, because this is a form of
discrimination, and it violates employees' rights. Employees do not always join labor unions, which is
dependent on the industry and the nature of the work. Employees have the right to expect and receive
proper training and supervision under safe working conditions; however, the example does not indicate
that these rights have been violated.
SOURCE: PD:021
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (pp. 237-239). New
York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

27

93. C
Things. Individuals should consider what they like to do, their favorite activities, when identifying possible
occupations. For example, some individuals enjoy operating machinery, driving vehicles, or using tools.
As a result, they might consider a career that involves working with things which are tangible items.
Examples include a landscaper who operates equipment and drives a truck, and a carpenter who uses
tools to build furniture. Careers that involve working with people and animals require a lot of personal
interaction and patience. Careers that involve working with information involve keeping track of data such
as facts and statistics.
SOURCE: PD:023
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (pp. 33-34). New
York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
94. D
Have lower start-up costs. The initial cost of business start-ups depends on a number of variables. One
factor that influences start-up expense is work space. Because a home-based business is run from the
business owner's residential dwelling, it lowers the cost by not having to rent space or build a facility.
Entrepreneurial ventures do not guarantee steady income or higher profit margins. The degree of
professional training depends on the type of business the entrepreneur is running. Therefore, it cannot be
assumed that most home-based business owners require less technical training.
SOURCE: PD:066
SOURCE: PD LAP 4—Own Your Own (Career Opportunities in Entrepreneurship)
95. A
Guidance office. Most schools have a guidance office that local businesses often contact when they are
looking for workers. Students searching for jobs should check the listings that are posted in the guidance
office. The guidance office also will have information about those job openings that will be helpful to
students wishing to apply. The athletic department, computer lab, and auditorium usually do not maintain
lists of available jobs although staff in those offices may know of jobs specific to their fields.
SOURCE: PD:026
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (pp. 114-115). New
York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
96. D
Having a personal data sheet. A personal data sheet is a list of information such as the applicant's Social
Security number; the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of references; dates of previous
employment; grade-point average; and any other data that might be asked for on a job application. Job
applicants who prepare and use a personal data sheet can fill out job applications quickly, easily, and
accurately because they have all the data they need on the sheet. Job applications are generally filled
out by hand not by computer. Keeping a file of job leads helps the applicant to organize his/her search for
a job. Knowing someone at the business would not necessarily help a job applicant to complete a job
application.
SOURCE: PD:027
SOURCE: Bailey, L.J. (2007). Working (4th ed.) [pp. 44-46]. Mason, OH: South-Western Cengage
Learning.
97. B
Include anything that the applicant forgot to mention. Many job applicants find the interview process
nerve-wracking. After the interview, an applicant may think of some important fact about himself/herself
that they forgot to tell the interviewer. It is appropriate for the applicant to include this information in a
follow-up letter, which could help the him/her to get the job. A letter is not likely to overcome the
impression that a nervous applicant made during an interview, but it may modify it somewhat. Letters
demonstrate written communication skills, not oral. Interviewers must remain objective in order to hire the
most qualified candidate for the job, which makes it unlikely that a hiring decision would be based on a
letter.
SOURCE: PD:029
SOURCE: Bailey, L.J. (2007). Working (4th ed) [pp. 71-72]. Mason, OH: South-Western Cengage
Learning.

Test 1068

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

28

98. C
Online. Many businesses maintain job application information online which makes it possible for
individuals to submit online applications. However, it is still important to write a letter of application and
include the letter as part of the online application. The purpose of the letter is to express interest in a
specific job and provide basic information about qualifications. When applying for jobs in person or by
telephone, it is often not necessary to write a letter of application. Individuals usually do not apply for jobs
indirectly.
SOURCE: PD:030
SOURCE: Bailey, L.J. (2007). Working (4th ed.) [pp. 55-57]. Mason, OH: South-Western Cengage
Learning.
99. A
Kelly volunteers at a local radio station. One way to obtain work experience is by volunteering. Volunteer
work involves donating time without pay to complete tasks or projects. By volunteering at the radio
station, Kelly can gain insight about a potential career interest, and she gains experience that might help
her obtain a paying position in radio in the future. Hiring someone to cut the lawn or perform contract
work involves payment. Researching careers might provide Sarah with insight, but this activity won't
provide her with on-the-job experience.
SOURCE: PD:032
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (p. 55). New York:
Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
100. A
Planning. Planning includes deciding what will be done and how it will be accomplished. Managers begin
the planning process by determining the goals and objectives they want the business to achieve.
Organizing is setting up the way the business's work will be done. Staffing is finding workers for the
business, and controlling is monitoring the quantities being produced as well as the efficiency of
production.
SOURCE: SM:001
SOURCE: SM LAP 3—Manage This! (Nature of Management)

