KEY
Test Number 1061

Business Administration
Core Exam

CAUTION: Posting these materials on a website is a copyright violation unless
specifically authorized by MBAResearch.
This comprehensive exam was developed by the MBAResearch Center. Items have been
randomly selected from the MBAResearch Test-Item Bank and represent a variety of
instructional areas. Performance Indicators for this exam are at the prerequisite and careersustaining levels. A descriptive test key, including question sources and answer rationale, has
been provided the state DECA advisor.
Copyright © 2012 by Marketing & Business Administration Research and Curriculum Center®,
Columbus, Ohio
Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive property of MBAResearch. Items are
licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for
any purpose other than as specifically authorized in writing by MBAResearch is prohibited.
Possession of this exam, without written authorization, under any other circumstances is
a copyright violation. Posting to inter- or intranet sites is specifically forbidden unless written
permission is obtained prior to posting. Report violations to MBAResearch at 800.448.0398.

Test 1061

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

10

1. A
Business-format franchise. A business-format franchise operates under a trade name and offers the
opportunity for many people to become their own bosses while helping companies expand more
efficiently. Product trade-name franchises offer an agreement to stock and sell a specific or exclusive line
of goods. General partnership agreements are designed to combine capital, experience, and the abilities
of two or more people. Limited partnerships are designed for two or more people who want limited
liabilities.
SOURCE: BL:003
SOURCE: BL LAP 1—Own It Your Way (Business Ownership)
2. D
Reading. The first step in applying written directions to achieve tasks usually involves reading the
directions. Employees need to understand the written directions before they can apply them. Therefore,
reading for understanding and meaning is an important step. Employees should listen if the directions are
given verbally rather than in writing. If employees do not understand the written directions, they might
speak to a manager and ask questions for clarification. However, they should first read the directions.
SOURCE: CO:056
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2009). Marketing essentials (pp. 182-183). New
York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
3. B
Employee handbook. Businesses often develop employee handbooks that provide information about
their general policies and procedures. For example, a business might outline overtime and vacation
policies, disciplinary and grievance procedures, pay schedules, dress codes, and behavioral expectations
in its employee handbook. Employee handbooks are usually given to new employees when they first start
their jobs. Productivity manuals, customer newsletters, and personnel records are not sources that
workers use to obtain information about a company's general policies and procedures for employees.
SOURCE: CO:057
SOURCE: Mathis, R.L., & Jackson, J.H. (2003). Human resource management (10th ed.) [pp. 529-530].
Mason, OH: South-Western.
4. A
Ask questions. Before employees can follow directions, they must understand them. Therefore, asking
questions is important because supervisors do not always give directions in a clear and concise manner.
If employees are not sure of what is expected, they should ask. Taking the time to completely understand
the directions will help employees to do the work correctly and efficiently. Reviewing notes may not be
helpful if employees have written down incorrect directions. Employees are not expected to do the
research; researching is the responsibility of supervisors. Before employees can practice tasks, they
need accurate directions.
SOURCE: CO:119
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (p. 175). New York:
Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
5. A
Respect of coworkers. Being able to listen effectively is an important skill in the world of work. Employees
who listen to others and try to understand what they are saying usually are able to respond appropriately.
The benefit is that they earn the respect of coworkers because they take the time to try to truly
understand what others are saying. As a result, they are able to answer questions, complete job
assignments correctly, and assist coworkers when necessary. Being able to listen effectively might lead
to a promotion but does not guarantee it. Being able to listen effectively does not necessarily mean that
employees will have access to management. Employees who listen effectively often have more
responsibility rather than fewer assignments.
SOURCE: CO:017
SOURCE: Lehman, C. & DuFrene, D. (2005). Business communication (14th ed.) [pp. 55, 57]. Mason,
OH: South-Western.

Test 1061

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

11

6. C
Tone of voice. People can change the meaning of their words by changing their tone of voice. For
example, the same words can be a request or a command depending upon the tone used to deliver
them. Tempo is the rate of speed or rhythm the speaker uses. Economy of speech is using as few words
as possible to express an idea. Accuracy refers to the correctness of the message.
SOURCE: CO:147
SOURCE: Hyden, J.S., Jordan, A.K., Steinauer, M.H., & Jones, M.J. (2006). Communicating for
success (3rd ed.) [pp. 74-76]. Mason, OH: Thomson South-Western.
7. B
Empathetic. Being empathic is acting according to an intellectual identification with the thoughts, feelings,
values, attitudes, and/or actions of another person. It is often helpful to imagine yourself in your friend's
place, to try to understand how s/he feels. By doing so, you often gain insight and can better help your
friend by providing thoughtful advice. If you are too formal, judgmental, or businesslike with a friend, you
may come across as uncaring, and you may offend your friend.
SOURCE: CO:084
SOURCE: Miculka, J. (2007). Speaking for success (2nd ed.) [pp. 39-40]. Mason, OH: Thomson SouthWestern.
8. D
Others may have different opinions. When defending their ideas, employees should keep in mind that
others might not agree with the ideas or may have different opinions. If this happens, employees need to
remain objective and clearly explain their ideas and provide supporting information. Being calm and
logical is often the best way to defend ideas to others who have different opinions. Managers usually ask
questions because they want to clarify information and make sure they understand the ideas. Employees'
objectively defending their ideas usually does not result in office conflict. If employees understand their
ideas, it should not be difficult to explain the data.
SOURCE: CO:061
SOURCE: Lesikar, R.V., & Flatley, M.E. (2005). Basic business communication: Skills for empowering
the Internet generation (10th ed.) [pp. 288-289]. Boston: McGraw-Hill/Irwin.
9. B
Being a good listener requires active listening skills. In order to be a good listener while handling
telephone calls, you need to learn to shut out distractions, put aside what you are working on, and focus
on what the speaker is saying. This is not a natural skill, but it is one that can be learned through
practice. There will still be times when, no matter how carefully you listen, you will have to ask questions.
SOURCE: CO:114
SOURCE: Hyden, J.S., Jordan, A.K., Steinauer, M.H., & Jones, M.J. (2006). Communicating for
success (3rd ed.) [pp. 79, 85-87]. Mason, OH: Thomson South-Western.
10. D
Mind-mapping programs. Mind-mapping computer programs help individuals organize a lot of information
in a meaningful way. Some web sites, such as Bubbl.us and Mindmeister, provide mind-mapping
programs free of charge. After mapping out the information in a logical order, the writer can then prepare
the report in a clear, understandable way. Index cards are manual tools for organizing information.
Statistical applications record numerical data. Online survey services (e.g., SurveyMonkey.com) allow
users to prepare, distribute, and analyze online questionnaires.
SOURCE: CO:086
SOURCE: NovaMind. (n.d.). Mind Mapping Software. Retrieved September 22, 2011, from
http://www.novamind.com/

Test 1061

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

12

11. A
Reading the text aloud. By reading the text aloud, Lana will not only see the text, she will hear it. By
hearing the words, Lana can detect missing words and assess the clarity and sequence of the
information. Reading text backwards helps detect misspelled words, punctuation errors, and some
grammatical errors, but this activity does not help the editor clarify that content is logical and meaningful.
SOURCE: CO:089
SOURCE: Pantejo, C. (2007, October 4). Four simple steps to effective editing and proofreading.
Retrieved September 22, 2011, from http://www.articlesbase.com/writing-articles/four-simplesteps-to-effective-editing-and-proofreading-226584.html
12. C
Regards. A closing is the point in which the writer ends a letter with a word of farewell just before signing
his/her name. When writing business letters, closings are usually neutral, professional, and friendly.
Closings such as "regards" and "sincerely" are common ways to end business letters. THX is an
initialism that represents the word thanks. Initialisms are not appropriate to use to close formal business
letters. A writer might use "greetings" to open an informal letter and use "affectionately" to close a letter
to a friend, family member or significant other.
SOURCE: CO:090
SOURCE: Lesikar, R.V., & Flatley, M.E. (2005). Basic business communication: Skills for empowering
the Internet generation (10th ed.) [p. 93]. Boston: McGraw-Hill/Irwin.
13. D
Come right to the point. The opening paragraph of a business letter should explain the reason for writing
and come right to the point. Effective business letters do not waste the reader's time by providing a lot of
unnecessary information, but they immediately come to the point and capture the reader's attention. The
letter does not need to be formal, but it should contain specific details and have personal appeal for the
reader.
SOURCE: CO:133
SOURCE: Hyden, J.S., Jordan, A K., Steinauer, M H., & Jones, M.J. (2006). Communicating for
success (3rd ed.) [p. 313]. Mason, OH: Thomson South-Western.
14. B
To sell products. One reason why businesses write informational messages is to sell products to
customers. Businesses often develop sales letters that explain their goods and services and send these
letters to prospective or current customers. The sales letters include important information about the
business and its products and are intended to encourage customers to buy. Letters and memos are types
of informational messages. Businesses identify customers before sending them informational messages.
SOURCE: CO:039
SOURCE: Hyden, J.S., Jordan, A.K., Steinauer, M.H., & Jones, M.J. (2006). Communicating for
success (3rd ed.) [p. 283]. Mason, OH: Thomson South-Western.
15. D
Letters of inquiry. The function of a letter of inquiry usually is to make a request. Businesspeople often
write letters of inquiry to request an appointment with a current customer, a potential customer, or a
business associate, particularly if those people are located out of town. For example, a businessperson
might write several letters requesting appointments with various customers before arranging a sales trip.
Persuasive messages are intended to encourage others to take action rather than to make a request.
Sales letters are a type of persuasive message. Corporate memorandums are internal forms of
communication.
SOURCE: CO:040
SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., & Thill, J.V. (2008). Business communication today (9th ed.) [p. 604]. Upper
Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.

Test 1061

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

13

16. B
Staff. Messages for all employees are considered staff communication. This is a form of downward
communication in which information is presented to employees by management. Upward communication
occurs when employees present information to management. Informal communication is the unofficial
exchange of information among members of an organization. Lateral, or horizontal, communication
involves the exchange of information between employees on the same level.
SOURCE: CO:014
SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., & Thill, J.V. (2008). Business communication today (9th ed.) [p. 5]. Upper
Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.
17. A
Gathers necessary information. Before the meeting takes place, Sam should gather information and
prepare notes for the meeting, so that he can provide necessary input or feedback that his supervisor has
requested. If Sam attends the meeting and does not have the correct information, he may lose credibility
with his supervisor and coworkers in terms of his job performance. Having handouts for meeting
participants and obtaining feedback from others may not be necessary for Sam to provide. Minutes are a
formal method of note taking that document the discussion, vote taking, and problem resolution that
occur during the meeting. A specific person usually writes the minutes during the meeting.
SOURCE: CO:063
SOURCE: Lussier, R.N. (2003). Management fundamentals: Concepts, applications, skill development
(2nd ed.) [pp. 326-328]. Mason, OH: South-Western.
18. A
Courtesy from salespeople. Many customers don't complain about the treatment they receive, but they
don't return to the business to shop. A lack of parking, advertised items, or customer-service personnel
could also be detrimental to a business, but they are not likely to have as much impact on the customer
as an encounter with a rude or indifferent salesperson.
SOURCE: CR:003
SOURCE: Odgers, P. (2004). The world of customer service (p. 21). Mason, OH: South-Western.
19. D
Greater profits. Businesses that provide good customer service usually retain their current customers.
Since it is much less costly to retain current customers than to find new ones, greater profits are usually
the result. Publicity is any nonpersonal presentation of goods, services, or ideas that is not paid for by the
company which benefits from it. Assets are anything of value that the business owns. Season is a certain
time of year.
SOURCE: CR:004
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2010). Marketing dynamics: Teacher's edition (2nd ed.)
[p. 620]. Tinley Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Company, Inc.
20. A
Customers' confidence in the business increases. Customers' confidence in a business grows when the
business provides accurate answers to their product questions. They feel the sales staff are
knowledgeable, which also gives customers more confidence in the products they buy. Customers are
less likely to need to return products when their questions about those products have been answered,
and their total purchases are more likely to increase than decrease. Customers may need to ask fewer
questions when their inquiries are handled in an effective manner.
SOURCE: CR:006
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2010). Marketing dynamics: Teacher's edition (2nd ed.)
[pp. 588-589]. Tinley Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Company, Inc.

Test 1061

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

14

21. D
Treat customers fairly. Management establishes policies that help employees to deal with customers in
the same way for the same situation in order to be fair. Customers who are not treated fairly may take
their business elsewhere. Businesses do not develop policies to treat customers differently, to offer
special privileges, or to give personal favors.
SOURCE: CR:007
SOURCE: Wolfe, L. (n.d.). How to develop outstanding customer service policies. Retrieved September
22, 2011, from http://womeninbusiness.about.com/od/businessplans/a/q-customersvc.htm
22. A
By identifying the customer's real needs. Product-related complaints often occur when customers make
improper buying decisions. Salespeople should try to identify the customer's real needs so that s/he can
suggest the most appropriate product. High-pressure selling techniques are never recommended and
would likely cause complaints. Salespeople may not be able to advise from personal experience in all
cases, and their advice may not be appropriate for the particular customer. Approaching customers
promptly is a good idea but will not prevent them from having product-related complaints.
SOURCE: CR:010
SOURCE: Odgers, P. (2004). The world of customer service (p. 52). Mason, OH: South-Western.
23. A
Thorough knowledge of the products. Employees have the most contact with customers and are the ones
who often project the image of the company. Employees can reinforce a positive image by having
thorough knowledge of the business's products so they can effectively explain the products to customers.
Well-informed employees are able to answer questions correctly and reassure customers that they are
making the right buying decision. On the other hand, poorly-informed employees project a negative
image because they do not have a thorough knowledge of the products. Employees do not reinforce the
company's image by having comfortable work stations, generous pay and benefit plans, or full access to
customer databases.
SOURCE: CR:002
SOURCE: Ingram, T.N, LaForge, R.W., Avila, R.A., Schwepker, C.H., & Williams, M.R. (2008).
Professional selling: A trust-based approach (4th ed.) [p. 42]. Mason, OH: South-Western
Cengage Learning.
24. A
People, ages 25-55, who lack technological skills. This group of people is needed to fill jobs in the
technology area. Since they are the core of the work force, a lack of skills would create problems. All of
the other groups would contribute to our leadership in technology.
SOURCE: EC:003
SOURCE: EC LAP 14—Be Resourceful (Economic Resources)
25. C
Scarce. Resources, goods, and services that are available in limited quantities have more value than
those items that are plentiful. A scarcity creates more demand and also a higher price. For example, a
small wheat harvest would increase the price of bread. Resources, goods, and services that are
abundant, inexpensive, and unlimited are readily available and, therefore, less valued.
SOURCE: EC:001
SOURCE: EC LAP 6—Are You Satisfied? (Economics and Economic Activities)
26. B
Demand. Demand is the quantity of a good or service that buyers are ready to buy at a given price at a
particular time. Producers try to balance supply with demand so that neither a surplus nor a shortage will
occur. Supply is the quantity of a good or service that sellers are able and willing to offer for sale at a
specified price in a given time period. Cost of production is the total expenses associated with producing
a product. Standard of living is the quality of life and general conditions to which people are accustomed.
SOURCE: EC:005
SOURCE: EC LAP 11—It's the Law (Supply and Demand)

Test 1061

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

15

27. C
Undeveloped. Traditional economic systems are found only in undeveloped countries where there is little
or no government involvement in either the production or the allocation of goods and services. In a
traditional system, people produce what they can, and everything is consumed. Industrial and established
countries have more complicated economic systems that may involve government regulations,
competition, or free enterprise. Independent countries include all countries that are self-governed.
SOURCE: EC:007
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2009). Marketing essentials (pp. 54-55).
Woodland Hills, CA: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
28. D
Poverty. Private enterprise is the most productive economic system the world has ever known, but it does
have some disadvantages. Property and income are not distributed equally, and poverty has not been
eliminated. There are still many people who are not able to afford the basic necessities of life because
they hold low-paying jobs or are unemployed. The private enterprise system promotes competition,
freedom, and profit.
SOURCE: EC:009
SOURCE: EC LAP 15—People Power (The Private Enterprise System)
29. D
Profit motive. The profit motive is the hope of making a profit that serves as an incentive for individuals to
assume risks involved in investing in business. It is a goal toward which an individual or a business can
work. Competition is the rivalry among two or more businesses to attract scarce customer dollars. Private
property is anything of value that is owned by an individual or a business. Supply and demand work
together to determine prices.
SOURCE: EC:010
SOURCE: EC LAP 2—Risk Rewarded
30. B
Price and nonprice. Most businesses use a combination of price and nonprice competition. For example,
a business is using price competition when it advertises a special sale. It is using nonprice competition
when it advertises its delivery service. When the business uses the two together, it is combining price
and nonprice competition. A business advertising a special sale and delivery service is not using a
combination of direct and indirect, perfect and monopolistic, or local and national competition.
SOURCE: EC:012
SOURCE: EC LAP 8—Ready, Set, Compete! (Competition)
31. A
Interstate highways. Public goods are goods and services that are used by all people and cannot be
withheld from those who don't help to pay for them. Marketing research, automobiles, and private schools
are goods and services provided by private businesses.
SOURCE: EC:008
SOURCE: EC LAP 16—Regulate and Protect (Government and Business)
32. A
Most businesses try to increase productivity. Increased productivity provides greater profits for the
business and enables it to compete more effectively. Businesses can increase productivity in several
ways, such as providing updated equipment, training employees, and paying fair wages. Productivity is
important to a business and can be measured in a variety of ways. One way is to measure the monetary
value of work produced. Reduced productivity would probably mean higher prices.
SOURCE: EC:013
SOURCE: EC LAP 18—Make the Most of It (Productivity)

Test 1061

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

16

33. A
Accurately assess his emotions. Paul was not evaluating his emotions correctly. He thought he was just
fine, but he wasn't. Paul needed to accurately assess his emotions so that he could boost his selfconfidence. In this case, he did not need to display empathy for another's emotions or exhibit a positive
attitude. Empathy is part of social awareness, and a positive attitude is part of self-management. Paul
was at the self-awareness step.
SOURCE: EI:001
SOURCE: EI LAP 6—EQ and You (Emotional Intelligence)
34. A
"I do not put off for tomorrow what I can do today." This is a positive affirmation because it incorporates
an avenue to complete things on time. Affirmations are positive statements about present or desired
strengths. The other examples are negative statements.
SOURCE: EI:016
SOURCE: Sasson, R. (2011). The power of affirmations. Retrieved September 22, 2011, from
http://www.successconsciousness.com/index_00000a.htm
35. C
Interests. Interests are the things that a person is curious about, concerned for, or involved with. When
assessing their personal strengths and weaknesses, people often identify their interests because
interests are strong points that might lead to appropriate occupations. For example, an individual works
on the school newspaper, likes to create posters for upcoming events, and belongs to the English club.
These interests are this person's strengths. After assessing personal strengths and weaknesses,
individuals might select suitable careers. Assessing personal strengths and weaknesses does not involve
identifying benefits or risks.
SOURCE: EI:002
SOURCE: EI LAP 17—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths)
36. B
Joyce should work on one trait at a time. If she tries to work on improving all three traits at the same time,
she probably will not follow through on any of them. It would be a mistake for Joyce to ignore her
supervisor's comments as these are meant to help Joyce. Asking for a transfer will simply postpone any
efforts to improve.
SOURCE: EI:018
SOURCE: EI LAP 9—You've Got Personality (Personality Traits in Business)
37. B
Happiness. An enthusiastic attitude increases your personal happiness and satisfaction and will help you
to enjoy life more. It should serve to reduce the amount of stress that you experience. Your enthusiasm
may prompt your supervisor to increase your responsibilities, thereby improving the overall importance
and quality of your work experience. Being enthusiastic will not increase your problems or your skills.
SOURCE: EI:020
SOURCE: Wallace, H.R., & Masters, L.A. (2006). Personal development for life & work (9th ed.)
[pp. 187, 236-237]. Mason, OH: South-Western Cengage Learning.
38. C
Demonstrate initiative on a regular basis. Initiative is a personal trait expressed by a consistent pattern of
behavior. To be viewed as a person with initiative, you must demonstrate that trait regularly over a period
of time. Telling people that you have initiative, practicing initiative from time to time, or cooperating with
those who have initiative would not be sufficient.
SOURCE: EI:024
SOURCE: EI LAP 2—Hustle! (Taking Initiative at Work)

Test 1061

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

17

39. D
"I told my supervisor I would work on Friday nights, so I will be here Friday." Employees who do what
they say they will do are demonstrating responsible behavior. Making excuses is not acceptable, and
employees should assist each other. Supervisors should be consulted when there are problems with
difficult customers. Employees should be willing to perform extra job duties in addition to their regular
duties.
SOURCE: EI:021
SOURCE: PD LAP 7—Make the Honor Role (Acting Responsibly)
40. C
Body language. Body language is gestures, facial expressions, posture, eye contact, or any other form of
communicating without words. The body language you use reveals as much about what you are thinking
as the words you use. A service attitude is the salesperson's commitment to the client's needs as
expressed through professional behavior. Patience is the ability to endure life's aggravations and
difficulties calmly. Empathy is the ability to put yourself in another person's place.
SOURCE: EI:025
SOURCE: EI LAP 14—Control Yourself! (Demonstrating Self-Control)
41. D
Cultural sensitivity. Cultural sensitivity involves being aware of, and accommodating to, the differences in
the customs, habits, and traditions of a particular group of people. Workers who are employed by
international businesses must deal with people throughout the world, and they need to be sensitive to
their differences in order to be successful. For example, businesspeople in some countries greet each
other with a bow rather a handshake, while others may hug when they meet. Being sensitive to such
differences enables businesspeople to succeed in a global market. Economic nationalism is a type of
protectionism that discourages imports. International businesses should not exhibit regional behavior,
which may be limiting, in order to be successful in a global market.
SOURCE: EI:033
SOURCE: EI LAP 11—Getting to Know You (Cultural Sensitivity)
42. C
Some people do not know how to be assertive. Some individuals have simply never learned how to
behave assertively. They may confuse assertiveness with aggressiveness and fear it will cause conflict or
embarrassment. Assertiveness can improve bad situations because assertive people speak openly which
may "clear the air." People sometimes fail to assert themselves because they cannot accept their
personal rights.
SOURCE: EI:008
SOURCE: EI LAP 18—Assert Yourself (Assertiveness)
43. C
Functional. Functional conflict exists when people disagree about something tangible or concrete. Often,
the people involved agree on a goal but have different approaches to the situation. Coworkers
disagreeing about the best way to solve a problem are involved in functional conflict. They agree that the
problem must be solved, but they disagree about the best way to do this. Emotional conflict arises when
people have different personal beliefs, values, or experiences. Intangible and specific are not types of
conflict.
SOURCE: EI:015
SOURCE: EI LAP 7—Stop the Madness (Conflict Resolution in Business)

Test 1061

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

18

44. C
Work team. A work team is a group of employees which is responsible for carrying out an entire work
process. This might include all the steps in producing a product, performing a service, or running a
section of the business. A quality circle is a problem-solving group of coworkers who are given work
situations or problems to study and discuss in order to recommend solutions to management. A project
team is a team of employees from different parts of the company who are assigned to work together on a
specific project. A short-term committee has an immediate goal, such as obtaining speakers for a
conference.
SOURCE: EI:045
SOURCE: Gido, J., & Clements, J.P. (2003). Successful project management (2nd ed.) [p. 324]. Mason,
OH: South-Western.
45. A
They require hard work and determination. Visions require hard work and determination if you want to
make them into reality. You will most likely encounter many setbacks along the way, and your vision will
keep you on track. Visions are not exactly the same as dreams. You might dream of becoming a
billionaire by the end of the year, but that isn't a vision because visions are realistically attainable. Many
visions can and have permanently changed the world. Visions are not intended for the short-term future;
rather, most visions will be turned into reality over a long period of time.
SOURCE: EI:063
SOURCE: QS LAP 11—Picture This
46. C
Levels of stress. Stress is a mental, physical, or emotional feeling of pressure or tension. Adaptability is
the ability to adjust or modify attitudes and/or behavior to new situations or circumstances. When people
are not willing to adapt to new situations, they often feel higher levels of stress. Fighting or ignoring new
circumstances can increase stress, which can harm a person's health and well-being. Resisting change
does not necessarily affect an individual's ability to reason or use logic. When a person learns how to
adapt to change, s/he may feel content or a sense of accomplishment by accepting the change. Being
adaptable often helps a person to relax, which can facilitate creative thinking and learning.
SOURCE: EI:006
SOURCE: QS LAP 15—Stuff Happens (Adaptability)
47. A
Do things more efficiently. Achievement-oriented people often want to do things better or more efficiently
than they have ever been done before. They are driven to achieve their goals and meet or exceed a high
standard of success. They do not like to be told what to do or to let others win. They are not satisfied with
the status quo—the way things are. They are constantly seeking to improve.
SOURCE: EI:027
SOURCE: EI LAP 10—High Hopes (Developing an Achievement Orientation)
48. A
Celebrate success. The final step in the process of leading change is celebrating success. The change
process can be a long one, full of hard work for everyone involved. A good change leader shows
gratitude and appreciation to everyone once the change has been completed and also remembers to
celebrate the smaller successes along the way to completion. Communicating the change, addressing
resistance, and putting the change into action all come before success.
SOURCE: EI:005
SOURCE: QS LAP 23—20/20 Foresight

Test 1061

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

19

49. C
Coaching is enabling others to reach their potential. Coaching is enabling others to reach their true
potential by helping them to overcome the barriers that are keeping them from doing so. Coaching
doesn't always involve athletics. You don't have to be involved with sports to be a coach; you just have to
be involved with other people. A coach isn't necessarily a boss. Coaching others is a lot more than just
telling them what to do. There isn't just one way to coach. You can coach others in a variety of different
ways.
SOURCE: EI:041
SOURCE: QS LAP 7—Bring Out the Best
50. B
Low productivity. Low productivity is not a benefit of effective human relations at work; rather, it is a
disadvantage that can occur if human relations are poor. High employee morale, good business image,
and increased cooperation are all benefits of effective human relations at work.
SOURCE: EI:037
SOURCE: EI LAP 5—Can You Relate? (Positive Working Relationships)
51. A
Airline ticket. Many lending institutions and retailers offer credit cards, which allow individuals or
businesses to purchase now and pay later. Because credit-card holders often pay high interest rates and
other fees, they must be careful when using their credit cards so they don't charge more than they can
pay off in a reasonable timeframe. Using credit cards to make large-dollar purchases often makes it
easier to change or cancel transactions such as airfare. In fact, many businesses prefer credit cards as a
payment method. Using a credit card to purchase a pack of gum, a magazine, or a small pizza is not a
good idea, especially if the transaction fee is higher than the price of the good or service.
SOURCE: FI:058
SOURCE: Kapoor, J.R., Dlabay, L.R., Hughes, R.J., & Hoyt, W.B. (2005). Business and personal
finance (pp. 154-155). New York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
52. C
Rent. Income is money resource owners receive for supplying goods and services. As a resource owner,
Lisa is supplying office space and receiving rent payments from the sole proprietor, so she is receiving
income. A salary is a form of income that is money payments for labor. A dividend is the sum of money
paid to an investor or stockholder as earnings on an investment. Interest is the money payments for the
use of borrowed money.
SOURCE: FI:061
SOURCE: Kapoor, J.R., Dlabay, L.R., & Hughes, R.J. (2005). Personal finance (pp. 66-67). New York:
Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
53. B
Immediate gratification. Opportunity cost is the benefit that is lost when a person decides to use scarce
resources for one purpose rather than another. When a person places $500 in the bank, the opportunity
(benefit) is having money available for the future. The cost of placing money in the bank means that the
person does not have the money to purchase a desired item. When a person purchases something that
s/he doesn't need but really wants, the benefit to the person is immediate gratification or a sense of
instant satisfaction that s/he has acquired the desired product. The opportunity cost (benefit lost) is not a
higher discretionary income, lower salary or wages, or long-term dissatisfaction.
SOURCE: FI:062
SOURCE: Kapoor, J.R., Dlabay, L.R., & Hughes, R.J. (2005). Personal finance (pp. 20-23). New York:
Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
54. B
Maintaining inventory levels. Maintaining inventory levels that will meet customers' needs is essential to
the success of a business. If the business finds itself short of stock at a time when it is also short of cash,
it may use credit to buy more. The other alternatives are benefits to businesses of extending credit to
customers.
SOURCE: FI:002
SOURCE: FI LAP 2—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

Test 1061

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

20

55. B
Saving even a little bit each month will help. Even a small amount of money, invested from an early age
over a long period of time, can make a significant contribution to retirement savings. People do not have
plenty of time to save for retirement; beginning early allows more time for savings to grow. Social
Security benefits are not likely to cover basic living expenses. Due to longer life spans, many people are
in retirement longer than 15 years.
SOURCE: FI:064
SOURCE: Kapoor, J., Dlabay, L., Hughes, R., & Hoyt, W. (2005). Business and personal finance
(pp. 477-481). New York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
56. B
Assign each goal to a general category. A good way to prioritize your financial goals is to assign each
goal to a general category, such as "must do," "important but not critical," or "not so important." Ranking
according to what needs to be done first and ranking every goal in numerical order are two common
pitfalls. Another pitfall is ranking everything as very important or thinking that all the goals are equally
important.
SOURCE: FI:065
SOURCE: QS LAP 31—Set Yourself Up
57. B
Collecting taxes. All levels of government collect taxes from individuals and businesses. The taxes are
used to pay for different types of public services such as police protection, road repairs, and public
education. Donations are given rather than mandated. Embargoes are actions that suspend trade with
another country and are used for political reasons or during hostilities. Government policies are one of
many factors that influence the ebb and flow of the business cycle; however, there are aspects of the
business cycle that cannot be regulated.
SOURCE: FI:067
SOURCE: Lowe, R.E., Malouf, C.A., & Jacobson, A.R. (2003). Consumer education & economics
(5th ed.) [pp. 141, 146]. New York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
58. D
Shows the parts of a business transaction. As a way to apply the double-entry accounting system when
maintaining financial records, a T account shows the parts of a business transaction. It does not reveal
motives, increase accuracy, or heighten awareness—though analysis of the parts of a business
transaction may result in any of the three.
SOURCE: FI:069
SOURCE: Guerrieri, D.J., Haber, F.B., Hoyt, W.B., & Turner, R.E. (2004). Accounting: Real-world
applications & connections (pp. 73-74). New York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
59. A
Identify the items you have compared. When reconciling a bank statement, you use checkmarks to
identify the items you have compared. Compared items include amounts on the bank statement, check
stubs, canceled checks, deposit slips, and the check register. Checkmarks are not used to correct
missed deposits, void ruined checks, or total the interest received.
SOURCE: FI:070
SOURCE: Guerrieri, D.J., Haber, F.B., Hoyt, W.B., & Turner, R.E. (2004). Accounting: Real-world
applications & connections (pp. 267-269). New York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.

Test 1061

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

21

60. D
Obtaining credit in your name. Identity theft occurs when someone illegally obtains another person's
information and uses that information to assume the other person's identity. It is important to protect
against identity theft to prevent unauthorized individuals from using your information to obtain credit in
your name. In most cases, the unauthorized person has no intention of paying for the credit, so the debt
will be listed on your credit report, which may have a negative effect on your credit rating. It is not
important to protect against identity theft to prevent unauthorized individuals from sending you
information online or trying to sell you a product.
SOURCE: FI:073
SOURCE: Kapoor, J.R., Dlabay, L.R., Hughes, R.J., & Hoyt, W.B. (2005). Business and personal
finance (p. 181). New York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
61. C
Financial planners. There are many types of financial planners who help clients develop investment plans
and prepare for the future. These planners provide financial services such as recommending and selling
life insurance, mutual funds, stocks and bonds, etc. Part of what they do is provide advice on how their
clients can achieve their financial goals. Certified public accountants, trust departments, and local bank
managers usually do not help individuals select the type of life insurance to buy and the most appropriate
investments.
SOURCE: FI:075
SOURCE: Kapoor, J.R., Dlabay, L.R., Hughes, R.J., & Hoyt, W.B. (2005). Business and personal
finance (pp. 259-260). New York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
62. C
Protects against financial loss. Insurance is a contractual agreement in which one company (insurer) will
pay for specified losses incurred by the other company (insured) in return for installment payments
(premium). For example, a company that loses its inventory and equipment in a fire can file a claim with
its property insurance carrier to obtain money to purchase new inventory and equipment if the policy
premiums are up-to-date and the policy covers such losses. Insurance does not necessarily reduce a
business's security needs, lower personal tax obligation, or enhance economic utility.
SOURCE: FI:081
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2006). Marketing dynamics (p. 403). Tinley Park, IL:
Goodheart-Willcox.
63. A
Variances. Businesses analyze their financial information to determine the differences between what they
had forecast and what actually happened. By doing this, they can account for those differences and
improve future forecasts. In this scenario, equipment costs were not a factor. The business could not
determine from its financial information whether the supply of raw materials decreased or demand
increased. Forecasts are estimates based on information known at the time the forecast was made and
will not be exactly what actually happens. In this scenario, therefore, the variances would not be
considered forecasting errors.
SOURCE: FI:579
SOURCE: Consoli, A. (2006, June 23). Entrepreneurs know how to use financial information. Retrieved
September 22, 2011, from http://ezinearticles.com/?Entrepreneurs-Know-How-to-UseFinancial-Information&id=228042
64. B
Current assets. Assets are anything of value that the business owns. Assets are classified as either
current assets or fixed assets. Current assets are items such as accounts receivable, the monies owed to
a business by its customers, that change throughout the year. Liabilities are debts that the business
owes. Accounts receivable are a source of income. Cash is currency and coins.
SOURCE: FI:085
SOURCE: FI LAP 5—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting)

Test 1061

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

22

65. A
Monetary returns and risks. The finance function obtains, monitors, and controls funds so the business
can achieve its objectives. Finance involves monitoring monetary returns (e.g., sales revenues,
investment profits) and analyzing risks (possibilities of loss) associated with expenses and investments.
The financial function does not directly monitor or control the business's product-development process,
supply channel members, or selling and distribution efforts.
SOURCE: FI:354
SOURCE: Gaspar, J., Bierman, L., Kolari, J., Hise, R., Smith, L., & Arreola-Risa, A. (2006). Introduction
to business (p. 443). Boston, Houghton Mifflin.
66. D
Performance evaluations. Human resources management is the process of planning, staffing, leading,
and organizing the employees of a business. An important aspect of human resources management is
coordinating performance evaluations with employees and their supervisors. A performance evaluation is
a formal assessment by the supervisor of an employee's job performance that lets the employee know
how s/he is doing on the job. The human resources department keeps the performance assessment form
in the employee's personnel file. Sales promotions are coordinated by the business's promotion function.
Information systems are usually computer-based and maintained by technical personnel. Equipment
requisitions are order requests that are placed and tracked by the purchasing department.
SOURCE: HR:410
SOURCE: Gitman, L.J., & McDaniel C. (2008). The future of business: The essentials (3rd ed.) [p. 297].
Mason, OH: Thomson Higher Education.
67. B
Consumer. The marketing concept is based on the belief that all business activities should be aimed
toward satisfying consumer wants and needs while achieving company goals. A company should be able
to achieve its goals by giving customers quality products at fair and reasonable prices. For most
businesses, the primary goal will be to make a profit.
SOURCE: MK:001
SOURCE: MK LAP 4—Have It Your Way! (Nature of Marketing)
68. C
Information that is needed. Information is a collection of facts, statistics, or data. Before businesses can
use the information, they must determine the type of information that is needed. For example, does a
business need economic data because it wants to expand, or does it need marketing data because it
wants to attract new customers? The business must decide the type of information it needs before it can
obtain and use that data. Businesses do not need to determine the type of computer system to purchase,
the type of report that is required, or the type of collection process to develop before using relevant data.
SOURCE: NF:077
SOURCE: Zikmund, W.G., & Babin, B.J. (2010). Exploring marketing research (10th ed.) [p. 26]. Mason,
OH: South-Western Cengage Learning.
69. D
A technical-trends report that was written on February 5, 2011. An important factor to consider when
evaluating information is its timelines. If an article or report was published a long time ago, the
information may not be relevant or accurate anymore, particularly if the topic involves technology.
Because the technical-trends report was written recently, the information is likely to be up-to-date. Due to
technology, the world is constantly experiencing medical breakthroughs and changes; therefore, a journal
article that was published a decade (10 years) ago is less likely to contain up-to-date information. Stock
values change rapidly, so a stock table that appeared in a newspaper on January 14, 2010 would not
contain the most current information about stock values. Because the world's history has dramatically
changed since 2000, the history textbook is outdated.
SOURCE: NF:079
SOURCE: Southern Illinois University: School of Law Library. (n.d.). Evaluating web sites and other
information resources. Retrieved September 22, 2011, from
http://www.law.siu.edu/lawlib/guides/eval.htm

Test 1061

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

23

70. A
Request for proposal. Complex projects often require the expertise of external resources. Building a new
facility requires skills from architects, construction companies, electricians, etc. And because these types
of projects are expensive, companies want to obtain bids from the potential vendors or contractors to
determine which one is best suited to perform the work. A request for proposal (RFP) is an invitation for
potential vendors to present bids to obtain a contract and perform the work. Because the work is
complex, the RFP must include specific information and provide detailed instructions about the way the
proposal should be written. Often, an RFP will require potential vendors to provide a summary of
qualifications as a section of the proposal. A business plan is a company's blueprint for success—its
business model. An executive summary is an element of a business plan and provides and overview of
the most important information.
SOURCE: NF:080
SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., & Thill, J.V. (2008). Business communication today (9th ed.) [pp. 413-414].
Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.
71. C
Identity. Managing information regarding copyrights and trademarks helps a company to preserve its
identity. If a competitor tries to infringe upon this protected material, the company will be ready to stake
its claim quickly. Copyrights and trademarks do not necessarily relate to inventory, correspondence, or
customers.
SOURCE: NF:110
SOURCE: NF LAP 3—In the Know (Nature of Information Management)
72. D
Windows. Microsoft Windows is one of the most popular operating systems. The operating system
manages the hardware and software and makes the computer work. The system connects the software
to the hardware and controls the overall operation of the computer. Excel, Oracle, and Adobe are
software programs rather than operating systems.
SOURCE: NF:085
SOURCE: Wikipedia. (2011, September 20). Operating system. Retrieved September 23, 2011, from
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operating_system
73. A
Makes it easier to comparison shop. The continuing growth of the Internet (e-commerce) allows
consumers to log onto their computers and visit several web sites to compare products and prices. This
makes comparison shopping easier because consumers do not need to telephone or drive to multiple
businesses to obtain the desired product information. The Internet benefits businesses because it allows
them to promote their products on their web sites. Another way that the Internet affects businesses is that
it often reduces the need to use intermediaries to get the products to the end users. Because there is so
much information available through the Internet, people may suffer from information overload, which is a
disadvantage of the Internet.
SOURCE: NF:086
SOURCE: Pakhare, J. (n.d.). Advantages and disadvantages of the Internet. Retrieved September 23,
2011, from http://www.buzzle.com/articles/advantages-disadvantages-internet.html
74. D
E-mail inquiry field. Many businesses provide a feedback option on their web sites that enables
customers to e-mail the business concerning problems or to ask questions. The e-mail inquiry field is an
effective method of providing customer service as long as the business responds in an appropriate
amount of time. A portable document format allows users to view files created by another operating
system. An electronic file attachment allows a user to send an attachment with an e-mail message.
Computer programming code is used to create software, web pages, etc.
SOURCE: NF:004
SOURCE: CT-CLIC.com. (2007-2011). Online inquiry form. Retrieved September 23, 2011, from
http://www.ct-clic.com/ContactForm/default.asp

Test 1061

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

24

75. D
Manage their time. Many employees use electronic calendars to keep track of their activities and prepare
schedules. The benefit of using these devices is that it allows employees to manage their time because
they can keep a schedule of their activities. They know what they have to do at a certain time on a certain
date, such as attend a meeting. They can also list deadlines for projects. This enables them to plan the
use of free time in order to accomplish their assigned responsibilities. Employees do not use an
electronic calendar to communicate with coworkers or delegate tasks. Employees use electronic
calendars to keep track of deadlines; however, managers usually determine the deadline based on the
priority of the project.
SOURCE: NF:005
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (pp. 359-361). New
York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
76. D
Sort by zip code. Database software programs allow businesses to arrange customer information
according to various criteria. Once the names, addresses, and other information are entered in the
computer, the business can sort the data alphabetically, or by zip code, or by any other criteria. For
example, a business might sort the list by birthday in order to send each customer a personalized card. A
business might use a spreadsheet program to calculate monthly profit, a word-processing program to
prepare sales letters, and a communications program to write e-mail messages.
SOURCE: NF:009
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2009). Marketing essentials (p. 199). Woodland
Hills, CA: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
77. C
Point-of-sale. There are many point-of-sale software applications that enable businesses to perform a
variety of functions beyond the point of sale. Some of these functions include placing orders, controlling
inventory, placing special orders, etc. SMS is an abbreviation for short messaging service and is used to
send text messages on a variety of cell phones. Java is a computer-programming language. URL or
uniform resource locator is the web site's web address.
SOURCE: NF:088
SOURCE: Appliance stores point of sale software. (n.d.). Retrieved September 23, 2011, from
http://wws5.com/au_pdf/appliancestores-au.pdf
78. B
Database sharing. Groupware applications refer to the modes that employees who work in different
locations use to work together or collaborate so they can accomplish a common goal. One mode of
collaboration is sharing a database that links or networks several people via computer. For example,
when both a sales representative and a warehouse manager have the ability to turn on their computers
and access the same inventory status information to see if a product is in stock for a customer, they are
using a groupware application. E-mail filters are computer programs that block out unwanted information.
Job rotation is an instructional method in which trainees are rotated periodically from one job to another
in order to broaden the trainees' perspective of the business. Relationship marketing is a strategy in
which businesses spend time with current and prospective clients outside the office setting to enhance
the partnership.
SOURCE: NF:011
SOURCE: Groupware Technology. (2011). Technical services. Retrieved September 23, 2011,
fromhttp://www.groupwaretechnology.com/TechnicalServices

Test 1061

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

25

79. A
Home page. The design and content of the home page is extremely important because many visitors do
not go beyond that page. Therefore, it is important to create an home page that provides an overview of
the web site and links to other pages on the site. If the goal is to have visitors follow links to access
additional information or make a purchase, the home page must generate interest and encourage visitors
to continue. A search engine is a software program that automatically crawls the Web looking for
information pertaining to specified search terms and displays a list of results. A domain name is a
business's web address. A shopping cart is a computer program designed to act as an online catalog and
order-processing center.
SOURCE: NF:042
SOURCE: Miles, J.E., & Dolce, C. (2006). E-Commerce (p. 192). New York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
80. C
Lost sales. Running out of inventory can result in lost sales, lowered productivity, unhappy customers,
and a decrease in profits. These are known as stockout costs, and businesses try to avoid them as much
as possible. Running out of inventory should not increase a business's taxes.
SOURCE: OP:189
SOURCE: OP LAP 3—Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations)
81. A
Report workplace accidents. Certain governmental agencies have developed health and safety
regulations that businesses are expected to follow in order to provide employees with a safe work
environment. These regulations usually require businesses to report workplace accidents to the
appropriate agency. The purpose of this requirement is to identify and correct unsafe working conditions,
and to compensate workers who have been injured on the job. Health and safety regulations usually do
not require businesses to inspect office facilities, hold regular safety meetings, or purchase fireproof
supplies. However, safety-conscious businesses usually inspect their facilities to identify potential safety
hazards. Also, businesses often hold regular safety meetings to keep employees informed.
SOURCE: OP:004
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2010). Marketing dynamics: Teacher's edition (2nd ed.)
[pp. 407-408]. Tinley Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Company, Inc.
82. B
They are exposed to different safety hazards. The types of safety hazards employees encounter depends
upon where people work and the type of work that they do. The number of hazards each faces depends
upon many factors, such as employees' observance of safety rules, management's attention to unsafe
conditions, and the business's enforcement of safety regulations.
SOURCE: OP:007
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2010). Marketing dynamics: Teacher's edition (2nd ed.)
[pp. 406-410]. Tinley Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Company, Inc.
83. A
Police department. To take appropriate action during an emergency, an employee must determine what
the problem is. Because the safe was open, the office was in disarray, and a computer was missing, the
business was probably robbed. In case the robber is still in the building, Josh should leave the business
immediately and seek a safe environment. Then, following company procedures, Josh should notify his
supervisor or the local law enforcement authorities (police). Josh should call the fire department if a fire
occurs. The local health department handles issues associated with health risks. The owner should file a
claim with the business's insurance company after the robbery has been reported to the appropriate lawenforcement authorities.
SOURCE: OP:010
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri C.G. (2006). Marketing dynamics (pp. 406-410). Tinley Park,
IL: Goodheart-Willcox.

Test 1061

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

26

84. D
Observing customers. Employees can provide regular, routine security for a business by being attentive
to customers, letting customers know employees are aware of their presence, and observing what
customers are doing. Both the route taken and the time of trips to the bank should be varied to prevent
robberies. Salespeople should check the floor limit on customers' credit to make sure customers do not
exceed it. Switching price tickets in order to buy an item at a lower price is a form of fraud.
SOURCE: OP:013
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2010). Marketing dynamics: Teacher's edition (2nd ed.)
[p. 405]. Tinley Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Company, Inc.
85. D
Increased risk of theft. Businesses establish different types of security procedures to protect their
assets—equipment, inventory, facilities, money, information, and employees. Businesses need to
communicate these security procedures to employees so the employees know what they need to do to
maintain a secure work environment. If employees do not follow security procedures, the risk of security
breaches occurring increases. For example, an employee who does not properly lock the cash drawer
increases the risk of robbery. If employees fail to lock the warehouse doors at the end of business hours,
the risk of theft increases. If a security breach occurs, the business may experience financial losses (e.g.,
stolen money, goods, and equipment). Employees follow safety procedures to reduce the risk of
accidents in the workplace. Financial losses may decrease if businesses train their employees about
ways in which they can identify counterfeit paper money at the point of sale.
SOURCE: OP:152
SOURCE: Kimiecik, R.C., & Thomas, C. (2006). Loss prevention in the retail business (p. 1528).
Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons.
86. B
Purchase agreement. After a purchasing specialist has determined that s/he has selected the right
supplier for a job, s/he and the supplier develop a purchase agreement which states all of the terms of
the purchase. An invoice is a formal, printed record of a sale that is usually delivered with the goods or
services purchased or mailed after delivery. A request for bids is sent out during the competitive bidding
process. A blanket purchase order is a special kind of purchase order normally used only for fairly
inexpensive goods or services that the business uses on a regular basis.
SOURCE: OP:015
SOURCE: OP LAP 2—Buy Right (Purchasing)
87. D
Competitive. Business is very competitive, and companies are always looking for more efficient
production processes in order to reduce their costs. Businesses that can produce goods more
inexpensively and, therefore, sell them at lower prices than other companies are able to be competitive
and attract a larger share of the market. Developing efficient production processes does not necessarily
make businesses responsible, flexible, or innovative. However, these are characteristics of most
successful businesses.
SOURCE: OP:017
SOURCE: OP LAP 4—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production)
88. C
Business clothing usually should be conservative. Steve should try to create a positive first impression of
himself by following certain guidelines for proper dress. Dressing conservatively, especially for an
interview, is one of these guidelines. Steve does not want his appearance to distract the interviewer; he
wants the interviewer to focus the discussion about Steve's qualifications for the job. Other guidelines
include wearing an outfit that has one focal point, wearing styles that are fashionable rather than faddish,
and choosing coordinating patterns and textures.
SOURCE: PD:002
SOURCE: PD LAP 5—Brand ME! (Personal Appearance)

Test 1061

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

27

89. B
Create a work system appropriate for you. Arrange the items you need on a regular basis in a manner
that is convenient for you. This will not reduce your workload, but it will make your work go more
smoothly. Your efforts may make your work area more attractive or impress your supervisor, but those
are not overall goals for getting organized.
SOURCE: PD:009
SOURCE: Wallace, H.R., & Masters, L.A. (2006). Personal development for life & work (9th ed.)
[p. 300]. Mason, OH: South-Western Cengage Learning.
90. B
Appropriate to you and your abilities. You must set goals that you are capable of reaching. Setting
inappropriate goals results in frustration. Specific and challenging goals are other characteristics of good
goals. Goals may be short-term (less than a year to achieve) or long-term (more than a year to achieve).
SOURCE: PD:018
SOURCE: PD LAP 16—Go For the Goal (Goal Setting)
91. D
Accepting a promotion. Once individuals make decisions and select alternatives, they must act on them.
By accepting a promotion, a person is acting on a decision. Just deciding what to do doesn't complete
the decision-making process. It is necessary for an individual to carry out the decision. Identifying a
problem and choosing an option are steps in the decision-making process that occur before action is
taken. Evaluating an outcome occurs after the action is taken.
SOURCE: PD:017
SOURCE: PD LAP 10—Weigh Your Options (Decision Making)
92. B
Meet your personal and professional goals. Becoming a problem solver helps you as you strive to
accomplish your personal and professional goals. There will always be some obstacles in the pathway to
success. It will be up to you to figure out how to overcome them. Becoming a problem solver won't
always help you get what you want from other people, but it might help you work out conflicts in your
relationships. Becoming a problem solver will help you as you pursue a career, but it won't necessarily
make you more money. Becoming a problem solver won't keep you out of tough situations—those are an
inevitable fact of life. But it can help you learn what to do when you're in those situations.
SOURCE: PD:077
SOURCE: PD LAP 17—No Problem (Demonstrating Problem-Solving Skills)
93. B
Self-management. The ability to control one's own activities, behaviors, and attitudes in the workplace is
often referred to as self-management. Employees who make a conscious effort to get to work on time
each day are engaging in positive self-management skills. Other activities that employees can control in
the workplace might include their ability to perform and produce quality work in a given time, willingness
to learn new activities, level of flexibility, and degree of workplace socializing. Self-concept refers to how
one views him/herself. Inner-qualitative and personal-orientation are not terms frequently used to
describe self-control issues as they relate to the workplace.
SOURCE: PD:020
SOURCE: Ludden, L. (2003). Job savvy: How to be a success at work (3rd ed.) [pp. 97-98].
Indianapolis, IN: JIST Publishing, Inc.
94. D
State departments of vocational rehabilitation. These departments provide current information about the
physical requirements of many jobs and suggestions about other agencies to contact. College and high
school services for persons with disabilities focus on access to education rather than on career planning.
Nonprofit vocational training programs offer limited types of training to persons with disabilities and
usually have relatively few job openings.
SOURCE: PD:022
SOURCE: Bureau of Labor Statistics. (2010-2011). Occupational outlook handbook 2010-2011.
Retrieved September 23, 2011, from http://www.bls.gov/oco/

Test 1061

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

28

95. D
To keep track of important job information. Job seekers must often follow up numerous job leads before
they find the job that is right for them. Keeping a notebook or card file of information about each available
job helps job seekers to keep all the information straight. The file could include information about the
business, the job, the contact person, date and time of the job interview, and results of the interview. Job
seekers would not show prospective employers a record of the different jobs they are investigating. A joblead file would not help job seekers to fill out job applications or keep them from paying a fee for
information if a fee is customarily charged.
SOURCE: PD:026
SOURCE: Bailey, L.J. (2003). Working: Career success for the 21st century (3rd ed.) [pp. 36-37].
Mason, OH: South-Western.
96. A
"I was seeking a more responsible job." This is a positive response which indicates that the applicant is
interested in getting ahead and is willing to accept additional responsibility. A job applicant should not
make negative remarks about his/her previous employer(s) or coworkers. Even though all of the other
alternatives could be true statements, they are negative and will reflect poorly on the job applicant.
SOURCE: PD:027
SOURCE: Bailey, L.J. (2003). Working: Career success for the 21st century (3rd ed.) [p. 47]. Mason,
OH: South-Western.
97. A
Yes, he should already have sent a follow-up letter. A follow-up letter should be sent as soon as possible
after a job interview. Since the company has had time to make a hiring decision and notify Matt of its
choice, we can assume that he did not write immediately following the interview. However, it is never too
late to send a follow-up letter. Businesses do not generally expect to hear from job applicants after an
interview, but they receive a positive impression of those who do write.
SOURCE: PD:029
SOURCE: Bailey, L.J. (2003). Working: Career success for the 21st century (3rd ed.) [pp. 71-72].
Mason, OH: South-Western.
98. C
Volunteering. People entering the labor market for the first time often do not have previous work
experience. In such cases, businesses often consider any volunteer work that the applicants may have
done as an equivalent to work experience. Many people gain valuable work-related experience by
volunteering in hospitals, nursing homes, schools, and with community-service organizations.
Brainstorming is a creative thinking technique involving the identification of as many different ideas as
possible during a certain time frame. Networking is the process of sharing and exchanging job
information. Apprenticing involves beginning in an occupation and learning the trade while employed.
SOURCE: PD:032
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (p. 200). New York:
Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.
99. A
Seniority. Seniority involves the length of time that a person has been employed by one company. The
longer people have been employed, the more seniority they have. Businesses often consider seniority
when selecting employees to promote. Often, they try to promote the more senior employees because
they have more experience on the job and have demonstrated long-term loyalty to the business.
Compensation is pay and benefits. Favoritism involves granting special favors to certain people.
Arbitration is a method of settling a labor dispute.
SOURCE: PD:034
SOURCE: Kimbrell, G., & Vineyard, B.S. (2006). Succeeding in the world of work (p. 487). New York:
Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.

Test 1061

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY

29

100. D
Strategic planning. Strategic planning is long-range planning (three to five years) for the company as a
whole. Strategic planning is one of the major responsibilities for top-level managers. Tactical planning is
short-range planning (one year) and is usually the responsibility of middle management. Day-to-day
planning is the responsibility of first-line, or supervisory, management.
SOURCE: SM:001
SOURCE: SM LAP 3—Manage This! (Nature of Management)

