Competency-Based
Competitive Events
*Written Exam*
for State/Province Use
Test Number 1075
Booklet Number _____

Business Administration
Core Exam
PBM - Principles of Business Management and Administration Event
PFN - Principles of Finance Event
PHT - Principles of Hospitality and Tourism Event
PMK - Principles of Marketing Event

INSTRUCTIONS: This is a timed, comprehensive exam for the occupational area
identified above. Do not open this booklet until instructed to do so by the
testing monitor. You will have _____ minutes to complete all questions.

CAUTION: Posting these materials on a website is a copyright violation unless
specifically authorized by MBAResearch.
This comprehensive exam was developed by the MBAResearch Center under contract with
DECA, Inc. Items have been randomly selected from the MBAResearch Test-Item Bank and
represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance Indicators for this exam are at the
prerequisite and career-sustaining levels. A descriptive test key, including question sources and
answer rationale, has been provided the state DECA advisor.

Copyright © 2013 by Marketing & Business Administration Research and
Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio (dba MBAResearch). Each individual test item contained
herein is the exclusive property of MBAResearch. Items are licensed only for use as configured
within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than as specifically
authorized in writing by MBAResearch is prohibited. Possession of this exam, without written
authorization, under any other circumstances is a copyright violation. Posting to inter- or
intranet sites is specifically forbidden unless written permission is obtained prior to posting.
Report violations to MBAResearch at 800.448.0398. Permission for reprinting is granted to state
DECA Associations authorized by DECA, Inc.

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM

1

1. In what type of business is the owner personally liable for any debts of the business?
A. Hybrid
C. Sole proprietorship
B. Corporation
D. Franchise
2. What question is important to ask when determining if online sources are providing reliable information
for a research report?
A. Can the author be quoted?
B. Do I agree with the opinions expressed in the article?
C. What are the author's credentials?
D. Do I need to provide a bibliography?
3. Brandon has been given a 385-page report and does not have time to review the entire document, but he
does need to understand specific information that is included in the report. What section of the report will
guide Brandon to the information he needs?
A. Bibliography
C. Appendices
B. Table of contents
D. Analysis
4. Jacob was nervous about making his valedictorian speech, but when he stood up to walk to the podium,
the audience cheered and gave him a standing ovation, which helped him relax and enjoy the moment.
What was the audience doing?
A. Exhibiting unprofessional behavior
C. Encouraging the speaker
B. Mocking the speaker
D. Engaging in passive listening
5. One reason why employees often are able to follow written directions more easily than they are able to
follow verbal directions is because most employees are able to
A. provide feedback about the presentation.
B. use body language to indicate that they understand.
C. ask questions during the explanation.
D. remember only so much information at one time.
6. One way to demonstrate active listening is by
A. interrupting the speaker to ask questions.
B. taking steps to minimize barriers.
C. focusing your attention on distractions.
D. concentrating only on the points that you want to hear.
7. Communication is best defined as
A. signals and gestures.
B. the transfer of feelings.

C. the exchange of ideas and information.
D. printed material.

8. When Jeremy extended his hand toward Hank as they were introduced, Hank said, "Hello, Jeremy," but
he ignored Jeremy's hand and kept his own hands in his pockets. What kind of nonverbal message was
Hank sending?
A. I am glad to meet you.
C. We have a lot in common.
B. I don't want to know you.
D. We have met before.
9. To be able to explain and defend their ideas objectively to others, individuals usually need to have
effective __________ skills.
A. reading
C. computer
B. technical
D. verbal
10. What is one of the qualities of a good telephone voice?
A. Monotone
C. Varying tone
B. Stern control
D. Decisiveness

®

Copyright © 2013 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center , Columbus, Ohio

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM

2

11. Brooke is attending a meeting to discuss an upcoming project that she will be working on. To take
effective notes during the meeting, Brooke must
A. listen carefully.
C. express opinions.
B. answer questions.
D. develop a briefing.
12. An employee is preparing a formal report and must present important facts in the sequence in which they
occurred. The employee should prepare the report by presenting the information in ___________ order.
A. inverted
C. concurrent
B. chronological
D. reverse
13. When writing e-mail messages to businesspeople, it is best to avoid using
A. initialisms.
C. modifiers.
B. conjunctions.
D. antonyms.
14. A business letter that has easy-to-understand information is said to possess
A. caution.
C. courtesy.
B. clarity.
D. consensus.
15. Letters of inquiry that businesses write to other businesses are routine business communication and
usually contain only
A. basic information.
C. confidential data.
B. complex instructions.
D. technical explanations.
16. Employees should be encouraged to communicate suggestions for changes to management because
A. the change may improve the business.
C. change is motivational.
B. change is always good.
D. the employees will feel appreciated.
17. Holding a telephone conference call is an efficient way for multiple employees to communicate at the
same time when they
A. require visual aids for discussion.
C. perform different job functions.
B. work in different cities.
D. lack text messaging capabilities.
18. Which of the following is most likely to happen to employees who are discourteous to the business's
customers:
A. They may be fired.
C. They may win an award.
B. They may be promoted.
D. They may lose their benefits.
19. What can you do to project to customers that they are important to the business?
A. Use customer names in conversations.
B. Stare at customers so they know you are listening.
C. Request a supervisor's assistance in resolving problems.
D. Speak loudly so that customers can easily hear your responses.
20. Which of the following is the primary reason for a business's employees to learn as much as possible
about the business and its products:
A. To reduce the promotional budget
C. To answer customers' inquiries
B. To assist coworkers
D. To create publicity for the business
21. Which of the following is an appropriate action to take when dealing with difficult customers:
A. Maximize your talking
C. Defend company policy
B. Maintain eye contact
D. Practice passive listening
22. Part of the process of handling customers' complaints effectively is
A. knowing how to argue.
C. getting all the facts.
B. adjusting company policy.
D. keeping the upper hand.

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM

23. What will probably happen to a business if it continuously fails to deliver on its brand promise?
A. Decrease liability
C. Increase market share
B. Improve sales volume
D. Lose credibility
24. Which of the following is a category of economic resources:
A. Valuable
C. Human
B. Scarce
D. International
25. The general economic growth of a country is supported by its
A. standard of living.
C. gross domestic product.
B. level of productivity.
D. wealth of goods and services.
26. A team of employees is responsible for researching potential demand for a business's brand-new
product. The factor that is most likely to affect demand for this product is the
A. product's utility.
C. government's policy.
B. costs of production.
D. number of producers.
27. If customers feel that a product's price is too high, they will probably
A. buy less of the product.
C. make a formal complaint.
B. call the Better Business Bureau.
D. try to negotiate the price.
28. Which business activity is responsible for locating and hiring employees to carry out the work of the
business?
A. Human resources management
C. Operations
B. Chain of command
D. Line and staff
29. The uncertainty of not being able to predict the outcome of investing in a business is part of the
A. risk.
C. reward.
B. incentive.
D. plan.
30. If a business receives an insurance payment because of a loss by fire, this would be the result of a(n)
__________ risk.
A. pure
C. human
B. economic
D. speculative
31. What is a type of government fiscal control that regulates business practices?
A. Zoning laws
C. Trademark law
B. Copyright laws
D. Minimum-wage law
32. When a business makes decisions about how to use its scarce resources, the business is
A. directing.
C. economizing.
B. controlling.
D. organizing.
33. Achievement-oriented, emotionally intelligent people usually are
A. prosperous.
C. transparent.
B. motivated.
D. impatient.
34. Doing things that make you feel good about yourself will __________ your self-esteem.
A. raise
C. lower
B. hinder
D. damage

3

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM

4

35. Anna and Alex work at the local movie theater. Anna is always complaining about the working conditions
at the theater, the long hours, and about most of the people that they have to work with. Although Alex
does not approve of Anna's ongoing complaints and wants to tell Anna to quit, he does not. He lets her
talk while he concentrates on his duties. Which of the following traits is Alex demonstrating:
A. Adaptability
C. Self-control
B. Assertiveness
D. Interest and enthusiasm
36. What personal attribute involves feeling comfortable with your opinions and decisions, even when others
criticize you for them?
A. Creative thinking
C. Social responsibility
B. Self-confidence
D. Optimism
37. If you "go along with the crowd" instead of standing up for what you believe in, you are likely to
A. do the right thing.
C. lose trust in yourself.
B. gain credibility.
D. get what you want.
38. Which of the following situations is an example of an employee's exhibiting unethical behavior:
A. Working four 10-hour days to shorten the week
B. Clocking out at the end of the day
C. Scheduling a two-week vacation
D. Taking a day of sick leave to play golf
39. Having a positive attitude helps people to cope with everyday life because positive people
A. expect life to be full of problems.
C. are less likely to be tolerant.
B. believe that problems can be overcome.
D. believe they have set reasonable goals.
40. Individuals who have the ability to direct the course of their own behavior and manage their feelings,
thoughts, and actions are said to have
A. perseverance.
C. empathy.
B. self-control.
D. initiative.
41. While receiving criticism, it is important for the message receiver to
A. implement the suggestions.
C. ask general questions.
B. request advice from another source.
D. maintain an open attitude.
42. Which of the following best describes the concept of change:
A. Detrimental
C. Inevitable
B. Avoidable
D. Unexpected
43. Instead of going through Jeff's files, Amanda waits until Jeff returns from lunch to obtain a file that she
needs to review. This is an example of one coworker ________ of another coworker.
A. respecting the privacy
C. correcting the work
B. violating the workspace
D. reinforcing the efforts
44. In order to show empathy, you need to treat other people's feelings with
A. indifference.
C. wariness.
B. sensitivity.
D. formality.
45. Which of the following is an example of sensitive communication:
A. "I'd like to invite you over for dinner sometime."
B. “We are happy you could stop by to see us.”
C. “I appreciate your contribution to the project.”
D. “You did a wonderful job decorating that cake.”

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM

5

46. Lisa was interested in becoming an assistant manager but was told that she was not assertive enough for
the job. What could Lisa begin to do in order to become more assertive?
A. Refraining from expressing her thoughts or ideas
B. Saying "no" to all requests made of her
C. Preventing others from taking advantage of her
D. Doing her work without asking for help from others
47. What type of statement can make a person feel defensive and angry during a conflict?
A. You
C. Me
B. I
D. It
48. What is true about personal vision?
A. Realistic visions are based on mission statements.
B. Good visions have permanent results.
C. Specific goals are necessary to determine your vision.
D. Achievable visions are time bound.
49. Which of the following coaching characteristics means that you can accept change:
A. Approachability
C. Flexibility
B. Enthusiasm
D. Dependability
50. How does empathy help coworkers to be fair to each other?
A. Empathy helps coworkers to understand legal guidelines.
B. Empathy gives coworkers the ability to learn a job quickly.
C. Coworkers with empathy are not likely to have disagreements.
D. Coworkers with empathy are better able to understand others.
51. Which of the following is NOT an advantage of debit card payments:
A. Businesses face no risk of customers having insufficient funds when debit cards are used.
B. Businesses pay 0.75% of each debit card sale to the bank that handles the billing.
C. Customers can often get a debit card even if they can't get approved for a credit card.
D. Businesses gain access to money quicker via debit card payments instead of checks.
52. When Matthew receives a check four times a year for income he has earned on his stock investments, he
is receiving
A. cash.
C. deposits.
B. credit.
D. dividends.
th

53. About a week before her 16 birthday, Kimberly got a phone call from her grandparents. They explained
that they wanted to give her $1,000 to put toward college expenses as a birthday present, but they
weren't sure if she wanted the money now or in two years, when she would be starting college. Kimberly
decided to get the $1,000 from her grandparents right away and put it into an interest-bearing savings
account for two years. Kimberly based her decision on
A. the time value of money.
C. the capital gains potential.
B. the concept of absolute advantage.
D. foreign exchange rate.
54. A customer wants to purchase a complete bedroom set and pay part of the cost at intervals until the
furniture is paid for. Which type of credit would best serve this customer's need?
A. Secured loan
C. Unsecured loan
B. Installment credit account
D. Revolving credit account
55. Financial planning can be described as a way to
A. retire with a substantial amount of money in the bank.
B. stop all impulsive purchases.
C. achieve your professional goals.
D. realize what it takes to get the things you really want.

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM

6

56. Chloe is preparing her income tax return for the first time. She is a receptionist, does not own any land or
real estate, and has not inherited any money from a deceased relative within the last tax year. She will
only be taxed on
A. wealth.
C. earnings.
B. property.
D. purchases.
57. On a pay stub, the total amount of money that a worker has earned for the pay period before deductions
is listed as
A. overtime income earned.
C. tax-exempt income.
B. net pay.
D. gross pay.
58. Why should you spell out the check amount when completing checks?
A. The spelled out check amount is used if the numbers are unclear.
B. The spelled out check amount verifies who can cash the check.
C. The spelled out check amount specifies the bank's routing number.
D. The spelled out check amount gives the purpose for the check.
59. Caitlin has three credit cards. She receives her credit-card statement for one of the cards and has to
decide how to pay the $500 she spent with that card. To pay the least for use of the credit, she should
pay with __________ and make the __________ payment.
A. cash; minimum
C. another card; full
B. cash; full
D. another card; minimum
60. What is the first step Cameron should take to protect himself from identity theft after he loses his wallet?
A. Change the passwords for his online banking accounts
B. Contact the appropriate government agency to replace the credit cards
C. Advise the proper law enforcement authorities about the loss
D. Cancel all of his credit and debit cards
61. What is an important step to take when selecting a financial-services provider?
A. Plan an investment
C. Organize records
B. Complete tax forms
D. Verify credentials
62. Of the following lending investments, which is not offered by a bank:
A. Municipal bond
C. Savings account
B. Money market account
D. Certificate of deposit
63. A bank denies a business owner's application for credit saying, "We feel that you would be unable to
make the monthly payments because of your other debts." What financial report did the bank review?
A. Budget
C. Income statement
B. Balance sheet
D. Operating budget
64. Which of the following is the generally accepted accounting principle that assumes that a business has
the ability to operate indefinitely:
A. Tangible existence
C. Going concern
B. Business entity
D. Open reality
65. A company's current balance of assets and liabilities falls under the focus of
A. return on capital.
C. capital investment decisions.
B. working capital management.
D. the cash conversion cycle.
66. The first day on the job, a new employee was given information about job duties, introduced to
coworkers, and assigned to a senior worker. This employee has received a(n)
A. performance evaluation.
C. attitude survey.
B. exit interview.
D. job orientation.

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM

67. Which of the following items cannot be marketed:
A. Hawaii
B. Health

7

C. Hopefulness
D. Holiday

68. Businesses assess their information needs to determine the type of information that will help them deal
with
A. ethical issues.
C. personal relationships.
B. job applicants.
D. specific problems.
69. Eric is viewing the results for an online search about the current economic situation in North America.
Which of the following is going to provide Eric with the most reliable information:
A. An excerpt from a second-edition high-school economics textbook that was published in the fall
of 2005
B. A six-page report written in 2009 by a Canadore College student for an economics class
C. An article written by a Harvard economics professor that was published in a business magazine
last month
D. A two-day-old video clip of a CNN interview with a 16-year-old entrepreneur from Sheboygan,
Wisconsin
70. Information management can be a challenge because the business world is
A. constantly changing.
C. not open to new technology.
B. suffering from a lack of information.
D. completely dependent on paper files.
71. Which of the following is not considered a technological innovation:
A. The cell phone
C. The Internet
B. The wheel
D. The weather
72. Which of the following is an umbrella term referring to any type of Internet transaction:
A. URL
C. E-business
B. E-commerce
D. Web site
73. When writing e-mail messages, employees should remember that e-mails
A. are formal correspondence.
C. can be forwarded to others.
B. take a long time to prepare.
D. are private conversations.
74. A business is able to search the World Wide Web and jump from one page that is connected to another
page by clicking on the
A. banner.
C. hyperlink.
B. attachment.
D. symbol.
75. When using a word-processing computer program, which of the following functions allows a user to
remove text from one part of the document and place in another part of the document:
A. Cut, paste
C. Find, replace
B. Copy, paste
D. Delete, replace
76. When using presentation software, computer users can add visual and sound effects between slides that
allow for an interesting
A. jump.
C. transition.
B. feed.
D. lead.
77. What type of software program would a cruise line use in order to maintain a list of recent passengers
and their cabin preferences?
A. Database
C. Communication
B. Presentation
D. Word processing

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM

8

78. A business uses a spreadsheet software program to track monthly sales for each salesperson and
calculate commissions. Based on the following spreadsheet data, how much more will the business owe
its salespeople for last month if it decides to raise the commission rate by 1%:
Salesperson
A
B
C
D
A. $2,856.50
B. $2,391.20

Commission Rate
5%
5%
5½%
5½%

Last Month
$62,500
$66,350
$65,100
$63,920

Commission Due
$3,125.00
$3,317.50
$3,580.50
$3,515.60
C. $2,625.30
D. $2,578.70

79. When designing a web page, the basic elements on the first screen should include
A. small graphics and a variety of typefaces for visual balance.
B. large graphics that capture the reader's attention.
C. highly detailed information about the page sponsor.
D. an overview of the content that is visually interesting.
80. An important aspect of operations is making sure that the business is able to
A. inventory products.
C. sell quickly.
B. motivate employees.
D. function effectively.
81. Jane works in a factory. She has noticed that sections of the factory floor are consistently slippery
because oil drips on them. She has reported this to her manager twice, but the problem hasn't been
corrected. Jane is so worried that an employee could slip and fall that she contacts the government
agency that handles workplace safety. This is an example of
A. establishing security procedures.
C. handling an accident appropriately.
B. being a tattle tale.
D. whistleblowing.
82. A national pizza chain guaranteed 30-minute delivery, but several of its drivers had serious car accidents
while rushing to meet this deadline. A negative outcome of the delivery guarantee for the pizza chain is
that it caused an increase in
A. sales.
C. business risk.
B. economic risk.
D. employment.
83. The first thing an employee should do when an accident occurs in the workplace is to
A. determine the severity of the injury.
C. file a report.
B. call an ambulance.
D. administer first aid.
84. Many businesses use a variety of security precautions in order to protect the businesses from
A. threat of foreclosure.
C. economic depressions.
B. natural disasters.
D. the risk of theft.
85. In which of the following situations is a business most likely to experience a security breach:
A. A business employee uses a paper shredder to destroy business records that it no longer needs.
B. A small business owner installs electronic locks and security windows in the company's
warehouse.
C. The technology coordinator regularly updates the antivirus software on all of the firm's
computers.
D. The last employee to leave a business facility after business hours fails to set the security alarm.
86. A small food market that calls several vendors to obtain a price and then places an order with the lowest
bidder is using the __________ buying method.
A. negotiated
C. informal
B. competitive-bid
D. standing-order

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM

9

87. The purpose of the production process is to change resources into products that will be
A. shipped to vendors.
C. bought by consumers.
B. stored in warehouses.
D. packed in cartons.
88. A full-time employee who goes to work five days a week probably would consider going to work
a(n)__________ activity.
A. routine
C. unscheduled
B. occasional
D. efficient
89. In order for individuals to achieve their goals, the goals should be
A. general.
C. realistic.
B. impersonal.
D. long term.
90. Chris likes to watch the space flight reports and to read about plans for the future in space. Space
exploration is one of Chris's
A. aptitudes.
C. skills.
B. abilities.
D. interests.
91. Because a business spends a lot of money to purchase and maintain office equipment, it expects its
employees to
A. call service personnel when equipment is not working correctly.
B. use and handle the equipment with care.
C. develop procedures to fix the equipment.
D. ask others to operate equipment that they do not know how to use.
92. Which of the following is most likely to be able to provide in-depth information about career opportunities
in specific fields:
A. Local newspapers
C. College recruiters
B. Trade associations
D. Marketing consultants
93. Which of the following is one way for a person to identify a tentative career interest:
A. Take ability assessment tests
C. Find out which majors are popular
B. Ask guidance counselors for suggestions
D. Locate high-income occupations
94. What behavior is exhibited when an individual recognizes the possibility of an undesirable outcome and
continues to work toward a goal?
A. Flexibility
C. Creativity
B. Self-discipline
D. Risk taking
95. Which of the following often is the best source of information about job leads:
A. Bureau of Labor Statistics
C. Business advisors
B. Occupational Outlook Handbook
D. Family and friends
96. A job applicant should be able to completely answer the interviewer's questions if s/he has been
A. reading brochures.
C. talking.
B. listening.
D. taking notes.
97. What should be included in the body of a letter of application?
A. Highlights of skills and experience
C. Explanation of the letter's purpose
B. Questions about the job opening
D. Reason for leaving current position
98. The main purpose of a job résumé is to
A. describe your personal interests.
B. request a job interview.

C. provide a list of references.
D. present your job qualifications.

Test 1075

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM

10

99. Which of the following statements is true about internships:
A. Unpaid internships often lead to full-time paid positions.
B. Companies that offer internships do not pay the interns.
C. An intern can expect to earn minimum wage.
D. Job rotation is the most important aspect of an internship.
100. Which of the following levels of managers spend most of their time staffing, directing, and controlling the
day-to-day activities of the business:
A. First-line
C. Executive
B. Mid-level
D. Regional

